Cells in the human and other animals are made up of cells called stem cells and progenitor cells. These cells can divide to make different types of cells, such as egg cells or sperm cells, or they can become any type of cell in the body. The fate of these cells is controlled by a process called cell fate reprogramming. This process involves the cell’s DNA being copied into a form called a genome, which is then translated into a molecule called an RNA molecule. This RNA molecule is then used as a template to make proteins, which can then be translated into the DNA of the cell. The DNA is then packaged into a structure called a histone, which contains the instructions needed to make the protein. The histone is made of a series of building blocks called amino acids, which are arranged in a pattern called a chromatin, and each of these building blocks can be modified by a specific enzyme. This allows the DNA to be read by the cell to produce a protein called a messenger RNA molecule, or messenger RNA for short, and the resulting RNA molecule to be translated to make a protein. In the worm Caenorhabditis elegans, a gene called GLP-1 is responsible for maintaining undifferentiated germ cells in the germline, the part of the worm's body that gives rise to the embryo. However, it is not clear how this gene is switched on or off. To investigate this question, Tursun et al. used a combination of genetics, tissue-specific transcriptome analysis, and functional studies of candidate genes to identify the genes that are switched on and off in C. elegans. The experiments showed that GLP1 is able to switch on genes that were previously thought to be switched off by a protein known as PRC2. This protein is known to be involved in regulating the activity of many genes, including those that are involved in cell fate. However the experiments also showed that the gene that was switched on was also switched on by another protein called UTX-1, which was previously thought only to be active in the somatic tissue of the intestine. This suggests that the role of the Notch signaling pathway is also important for the reprograming of germ cells. The Notch pathway is a well-known signaling pathway that is involved in the development of many diseases, including cancer and cancer-causing diseases. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether the same Notch-mediated changes occur in other
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a bacterium that can cause a wide range of life-threatening infections, including pneumonia, sepsis and urinary tract infections. Klebsiellas are often resistant to antibiotics, which can lead to severe infections. The immune system is able to fight off infections by recognizing and killing the bacteria, but it is not clear how the immune system protects itself against K. pneumoniae infections. In the lungs, immune cells called neutrophils are the first line of defense against invading bacteria. Neutrophils release chemicals called reactive oxygen species ( ROS ), which are produced by the immune cells and help to kill the bacteria. The production of ROS is important for the immune response, but the role of SKAP2, a protein that is found in neutrophil cells, is not well understood. To investigate how SKAP 2 protects the lungs against K. pneumoniae infection, Wang et al. genetically engineered mice to produce a version of the SKAP-2 protein in their bone marrow. These mice were then exposed to a strain of the bacteria that is resistant to the standard antibiotics used to treat pneumonia. The experiments show that neutrophilia from these mice were more likely to be able to defend themselves against the bacteria than normal mice. However, neutrophila from the mice that lacked SKAP proteins were less able to produce ROS than normal neutrophilies. This suggests that SKAP is required for neutrophili to produce the ROS that are needed to kill bacteria. Further experiments showed that neutrophic cells in the lungs of mice that lack SKAP protein were less likely to make ROS. These findings suggest that SKATCCDisease-causing mutations in the gene that encodes SKAP are common in people with chronic granulomatous disease, which is caused by mutations in a protein called NADPH oxidase. This protein is known to be involved in making ROS, and it is thought to be important for protecting the lungs from infections caused by K. bacteria. Wang and Sa Pessoa's findings show that the immune cell SKAP plays a key role in the defense of the lungs to K. The next step is to find out whether SKAP also protects against other infections, such as those caused by other bacteria, and if so, to investigate if SKAPPE is also involved in protecting the lung from other infections.
Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by the parasite Plasmodium vivax, which is transmitted between humans by mosquitos and mosquitoes. The disease is caused by parasites called sporozoites, which are found in the blood and the liver of both humans and mosquitos. When a mosquito bites a human, it injects the parasites into the skin, where they multiply to form parasites called schizonts. The parasites then move to the liver, where the parasites divide to form dormant parasites called hypnozoites. These parasites can live in the liver for weeks to months before they become active and cause new infections. The most common malaria parasite in the world is P. vivac, which causes 80–300 million cases of malaria every year. In the absence of new infections, the parasites can be dormant in the human liver for up to six months. However, if the parasites become active, they can be transmitted to the mosquito, which can then transmit the parasite to other mosquitos or humans. This is known as a relapse infection, and it can be difficult to distinguish between relapses and re-infections of the same parasite. It is also difficult to predict how many relapses will occur in a population of individuals. To address this problem, Battle et al. developed a mathematical model of how the parasite is transmitted. The model assumes that the parasites in the body's liver remain dormant for a long time before they start to multiply. This means that the number of parasites in a person's liver is proportional to how many of the parasites are active. If there are more hypnozites in the population, more relapses are likely to occur, and the number will be higher. This will increase the risk of relapses. The results of the model suggest that the most active parasites in people's livers are more likely to be relapsed and transmit the malaria parasite to mosquitos, and that treatment with a drug called primaquine, which kills the parasites, will reduce the risk for relapses in people with the highest number of hypnozosites in their livers. The next step will be to test whether the drug is effective at treating relapses, and to see how well it works in people who are already infected with the parasite.
When forests are disturbed by human activity, they can be destroyed by logging, which can result in a large amount of carbon dioxide being released into the atmosphere. However, this carbon dioxide can be counteracted by forest regrowth. This process is known as carbon sequestration, and it can take up to 125 years to fully recover the lost carbon dioxide. The extent to which this process takes place varies between different areas of the Amazonian Amazon, where logging is common and often occurs in the same year. The amount of lost carbon in the forest is also influenced by the type of disturbance that occurs. For example, in the Guiana Shield, where the forest grows on nutrient-poor soils and is prone to frequent and sometimes large-scale wind-induced disturbances, the forest regains its carbon stores faster than in the western Amazon. This suggests that the loss of carbon from the forest may compensate for the loss from the deaths of the survivors. But it is not clear how much carbon the forest can recover after logging. To investigate this question, Avitabile et al. used a computer model to model the carbon stores of 133 permanent forest plots across the Amazonia region of the Brazilian Amazon. The model showed that the forest’s carbon stores are higher in the west and in the middle of the Guianas Shield, which are both heavily logged, and have low rainfall and high seasonality. In addition, the model also showed that carbon stores recover faster in the south, where there is less rainfall and the forest growth is more rapid. These results suggest that the recovery of carbon stores is more likely to occur in areas with high rainfall and low seasonality than in other regions of the region. The next challenge will be to find out how the carbon reserves of the forest recover. This will be particularly important in areas where there are few survivors and where the forests are not as well managed as they are in other areas.
Neurons and other cells in the brain are made from stem cells called neural stem cells. These cells can develop into a variety of different types of cells, including neurons, astrocytes, and other types of cell that are involved in the formation of the nervous system. The stem cells that give rise to neurons are found in two regions of the adult mammalian brain: the subgranular zone in the dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone in a region called the lateral wall of the lateral ventricle. These stem cells give rise primarily to neurons in the olfactory bulb, but they can also form other cells, such as astrolytes and oligodendrocyte, in the same region of the brain. It is not clear whether stem cells in these regions are formed by stem cells, or by other cells called neurosphere-initiating cells ( or NICs for short ). NICs are thought to be the cells that form the neural spheres that form a network of neurons. However, it is not known whether NICs or stem cells are responsible for forming these spheres. To investigate this question, Li et al. used a technique called flow cytometry to identify and isolate NICs from adult mouse lateral ventricular zone cells. The experiments identified two distinct populations of NICs in the mouse brain. One of these cells, called GEPCOT cells, was found to be short-lived and unable to form neurospheres, while the other, called pre-GEPCOT, was able to form the spheres in the adult brain. These two types of stem cells were also found to have different properties. The pre- GEPCOOT cells were able to survive and form neuroblasts, but the NICs were unable to do so. The two groups of cells were not only different from each other, but also different from one another. The results presented by Li and Li suggest that NICs and NICs do not form the same network of cells in adult mouse brains. The next challenge will be to identify the different populations of cells that make up these networks and to better understand how these cells work.
Cells are constantly exposed to mechanical forces, and they have evolved a range of mechanisms to detect and respond to these forces. For example, a type of ion channel called Piezo1 is able to sense these forces in milliseconds. This channel can detect forces in the membrane that surrounds the cell, and it can open and close in response to changes in the cell’s membrane tension. However, it is not clear how Piezo channels work together to sense forces. Previous studies have suggested that Piezo2 channels may be distributed in clusters, but it is also possible that they are distributed in random ways. Now, Lewis et al. have used a technique called patch-clamp electrophysiology to measure the number of Piezo ion channels in the membranes of human cells grown in the laboratory. The technique uses a technique that uses a tiny device called a patch pipette to clamp onto the surface of the cell and measure the electrical activity of the membrane. The experiments show that Piezones are arranged in a bowl-shaped shape, and that the channels are not evenly distributed across the membrane, but instead tend to be clustered in groups of two or three. This suggests that the shape of the Piezo channel allows the channels to interact with each other, even when they are not physically close to each other. The next step is to find out whether Piezo ions are able to interact and work together in the same way. To do this, Lewis and Grandl used mathematical models to simulate the spatial distribution of the channels in cells and then measured the number and activity of Piezons. The results showed that Piezos are not only distributed in groups, but also tend to interact independently. This means that the Piezos do not work together, but rather act as independent mechanotransducers. The findings of Lewis and grandl suggest that Pieozons are essential for cells to be able to transduce forces across the entire cell membrane. Future work is now needed to understand how Piezos work together and how they interact with other types of channels.
When we make a decision, we have to decide whether to make it or not. This decision is often accompanied by a high degree of confidence in the accuracy of the choice. This confidence is important because it influences many aspects of behavior, such as how we learn from our mistakes, plan subsequent decisions, and communicate our decisions to others. Decisions are not hardwired or reflexive, but they are experimentally tractable. Scientists have long sought to understand how the brain accumulates the information needed to make decisions. One way to do this is to use a mathematical model of decision-making. This model suggests that the brain uses a process called “bounded evidence accumulation” to build up the evidence needed to form a decision. This process is thought to involve a race between competing accumulators, each of which integrates the accumulated evidence for one alternative and against the others. The decision terminates when one accumulator reaches a threshold or bound, which determines both the choice speed and the time it takes to reach a final decision. However, it is not clear how this process works. One possibility is that the noise in the noise itself, which is the amount of noise that accumulates in the brain, influences the speed and confidence of the decision. To test this idea, Kiani et al. manipulated the noise associated with a random dot motion display in monkeys and humans. The monkeys had to decide between two possible directions of motion and report their decision after a delay, and the monkeys were also asked to report their decisions at any time after the onset of the motion. The experiments showed that increasing the noise caused the monkeys to make faster decisions and greater confidence in their decisions. This was in agreement with predictions of a bounded evidence accumulation model. The results of the experiments may also be relevant to other areas of the brain that are involved in decision making. For example, the experiments show that the activity of neurons in the visual cortex of monkeys is also affected by the noise. The next step will be to find out how the monkeys use this information to make their decisions, which may help us to understand the brain’s ability to process information about motion.
Cells in the human and other eukaryotic organisms have evolved a number of ways to regulate their lifespan. For example, a protein called DAF-16, which is produced by the worm Caenorhabditis elegans, regulates the lifespan of the worm by preventing it from moving to the nucleus, where it can be activated by signals from the outside of the cell. This prevents the worm’s cells from growing and dividing. However, it is not clear how the worms’ lifespan is regulated. Previous studies have shown that the worms have two proteins called TAX-6 and Calcineurin, which are involved in regulating lifespan. However it was not known how these two proteins work together to regulate lifespan. To investigate this question, Dong et al. used worms that had been genetically modified to produce two different versions of the TAX proteins. The experiments show that TAX and the other two proteins, called UNC-43 and CAMKII, also regulate lifespan in C. elegans. The worms were able to live longer than wild-type worms that lacked TAX, and they also lived longer than normal worms. The results suggest that the two proteins regulate lifespan by switching on and off DAF16. The two proteins also regulate DAF 16 in the same way in response to stress conditions, such as heat, starvation, and oxidation. However unlike the worms, the worms do not have a single protein that can activate DAF. Instead, the two enzymes work together. The next step is to find out which of the three proteins that are involved.
Animals use a variety of behaviors to survive and reproduce. Some of these behaviors are complex, such as building nests, searching for mates, and searching for food. Others are simple, such that a single action can lead to a series of similar actions. For example, a bird will sing a song to attract a mate, but it is not clear how this process is organized into a sequence of actions. The brain is responsible for organizing these behaviors, but little is known about how it does so. Fruit flies are often used as models to study how the nervous system controls these behaviors. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, for example, is a popular model organism because it is easy to manipulate and study its nervous system, and because it can be used to study the behavior of other animals. The flies are able to groom their bodies in a sequence that is common to most animals, including humans. However, it was not known how the brain controls the grooming behavior of fruit flies. To investigate this question, Kays et al. used a technique called ‘grooming’ to study fruit flies that were coated in yellow dust and allowed to groom. The experiments show that the flies use different types of motor programs to clean their body parts, and that these programs are organized in a hierarchy. When the flies are dusted with yellow dust, the flies first clean their eyes, then their abdomen, wings and legs, and finally their head. This process is followed by the flies cleaning their body part, which is then followed by them rubbing their legs against each other. The activity of the flies’ brains is controlled by a network of neurons in the fly’s nervous system. The results of the experiments suggest that the neural circuits that control the grooming behaviors are similar to those that control other behaviors. This suggests that the same neural circuits are also involved in the organization of the grooming sequence. The next challenge is to understand how the neural networks that control grooming are organized and how they work together to produce the grooming sequences.
Genes are made up of two copies of DNA, which are separated by a structure called a chromosome. The two sets of DNA are made from a single copy of each chromosome, which is called a double helix, and the two copies are separated using a process called meiosis. The first meiotic cell division occurs in a process known as meiosis I, where the chromosomes are separated between the two daughter cells of the same cell. The second meiosis takes place during meiosis II, when the two chromosomes are duplicated and the DNA is duplicated again. The process of meiosis is controlled by a protein called the spindle assembly checkpoint, which ensures that the chromosomes remain attached to each other. The spindle is made of long filaments called microtubules that are made of proteins called cytosine and guanine nucleotides. The cytosines are made by a group of proteins known as the microtubule-associated proteins, which can be found on the surface of the microtubes. The microtubulae are also known as spindles, and they are found in the cell’s nucleus, which contains the genetic material of the cell. During meiosis, the chromosomes of the daughter cells are separated from each other by a series of events that are coordinated by a process that involves two opposing forces: the pulling forces that pull the chromosomes apart and the resisting forces generated by the sister chromatids, which counteracts the pulling force. However, it was not clear how these two opposing processes are coordinated. Now, Xu et al. have shown that a protein known as Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 for short ) is essential for the separation of the chromosomes during the first meiosis in mouse oocytes. The experiments show that Sgoll2 is able to turn off the assembly checkpoint by binding to two proteins called PP2A and Mad2. This prevents the spindle-associated protein from binding to the checkpoint and prevents it from working properly. Further experiments showed that the protein also helps to regulate the formation of microtubular attachments between the chromosomes, and that this is achieved by recruiting another protein called MCAK to the spndles. Xu and Xu also found that the activity of Aurora kinases, which help to separate the chromosomes in the first and second meiotic cells, is reduced in mice that lack Sgool2. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how Sgul2 regulates the
Neurons communicate with each other by forming connections called synapses with other neurons. These connections are formed by junctions between neurons that are connected by long structures called axons and dendrites, which extend long distances. Neurons are made up of many different types of cells, each of which contains a different set of genes. The activity of each neuron is controlled by the activity of the other cells in the neuron, and this activity can be controlled by a process called gene expression, which involves the expression of genes in the cell's nucleus. However, it is not clear how this process is controlled. Previous studies have shown that the activity and activity of a neuron can influence the expression and activity levels of genes, but it is unclear how this is regulated. Previous research has shown that a protein called netrin-1, which is found on the surface of neurons, is able to stimulate the translation of messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules, which are the building blocks of proteins, from the nucleus to the synapses. However it was not clear whether the same process also controls the localization of mRNA molecules to specific synapses, and whether this is the case. Wang et al. have now used a technique called fluorescence in situ hybridization to study the localization and translation of mRNA in sensory neurons grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that the mRNA molecules are delivered throughout the neuron's arbor, but that they are most abundant at synapses and at sites of contact with the neuron. The mRNA molecules were also found to be more abundant at sites where the neuron is receiving signals from the synapse than at sites that are not receiving them. Wang and Wang also found that the translation process is regulated by a signaling pathway that involves a protein known as DCC receptor. This signaling pathway is activated by a signal from the cell membrane, which binds to the protein and activates the translation machinery that is needed to translate the mRNA into proteins. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how this signaling pathway regulates the localization, translation and the translation processes of the RNA molecules.
The human body is made up of many different types of cells, each with its own unique characteristics. These cells are called cells of the embryo, and they can be made from stem cells, which can develop into any type of cell in the body. To understand how the human body develops, it is important to understand how these cells are organized into specific shapes and sizes. To do this, researchers need to understand the molecular mechanisms that control the formation of these shapes. To achieve this, scientists need to be able to manipulate the behavior of the cells in a way that allows them to self-organize into different shapes. For example, the cells that form the lining of the gut, for example, can be genetically engineered to form a variety of different shapes, such as a gut organ or a brain tissue. However, it has been difficult to study how these different shapes form in the laboratory. To address this problem, Mandegar et al. used a technique called CRISPR-Cas to silence specific genes in human stem cells grown in the lab. This allowed the cells to be genetically manipulated to produce different shapes and shapes. The experiments show that CRISR-Cas can be used to silence the genes that control how the cells interact with each other and to control the organization of the cell population. This allows the researchers to control which cells form a particular shape in a population of stem cells. The CRISP-Cas technique can be applied to any cell type, but it can be particularly useful for studying the formation and organization of tissues and organs in the developing embryo. The next step will be to develop a method to use this technique to study the development in the same way as the human embryo.
The human brain contains billions of neurons that process information from the world around us. The brain is a finite structure, and so it is important to understand how it works. The ability to process information is often limited by the amount of resources that are available to process it. For example, it is possible to encode information in the brain’s visual working memory ( or VWM ), which is the memory of a scene, and to do so with the same amount of effort. However, the amount that the brain uses to encode an item is not always the same as the number of items that it can process. This is because the brain has to balance the costs of encoding information with the benefits of performing the task. This trade-off is known as the cost-off between the cost and the benefit of encoding the information. The cost of encoding an item decreases as the amount available to encode it increases. This means that the amount needed to encode the item decreases with increasing number of stimuli. This makes it less cost-effective to spend resources on encoding the item. To understand how the brain balances the costs and benefits of processing information, researchers have developed a model of VWM that accounts for the effects of different stimuli. The model predicts that the cost is a weighted sum of an error-based behavioral cost and a cost-based neural encoding cost. This model is based on the fact that the number and quality of stimuli in a task can vary from experiment to experimentally measured data. This suggests that the model can be used to predict how well. To test the model, Wang et al. used data from previous studies that had been published in the literature. The results showed that it could account for the effect of both the size of the task and the number or quality of the stimuli in the experiment. The models were also able to account for changes in the amount and type of stimuli that the volunteers had to encode. The findings suggest that the limitations of Vwm are not due to the brain being limited by constraints on the amount resources available for encoding information. Instead, they are due to a mechanism that minimizes a cost, instead of a fixed constraint on the number available for the encoding of information. Future work is now needed to test the predictions of the model and to test how well it can account for experimental data. The next step will be to test whether the model could be applied to other types of tasks, such as those that require the brain to process large numbers of stimuli, or to other tasks that are more complex
Plants use a process called autophagy to destroy unwanted or unnecessary components of their cells. This process is essential for the survival of plants and animals, and it helps them to adapt to changes in their environment and stress conditions. However, it is not clear how plant pathogens can hijack this process and hijack it for their own benefit. The potato blight pathogen, Phytophthora infestans, is a serious threat to food security, causing crop losses that could feed hundreds of millions of people worldwide. This pathogen uses a family of proteins called RXLR effectors to hijack plant cells to enable it to infect them. The effector proteins are found in a wide range of plant cells, and they can be used as probes to study how plant cells respond to infection. Here, Win et al. used a technique called confocal laser scanning microscopy to study the effector protein PexRD54, which binds to a protein called ATG8CL. The experiments show that Pex RD54 binds to ATG 8CL to stimulate the formation of autophagosomes, which are compartments in the cell that are used to store and destroy unwanted cell components. The autophagic activity of the PexARD54-bound protein is also stimulated by the presence of another protein called Joka2, which is found in the same compartments as the autophagousome. This suggests that the effect of the effectors on plant cells is not only to protect them from infection, but also to counteract the plant’s own defenses. The next step following on from this work will be to find out which effector is responsible for this effect.
When a heart muscle is injured, the cells that make up the heart’s outer layer, the myocardium, become inflamed and die. The heart muscle cells are called cardiac fibroblasts, and they are responsible for repairing the damage to the heart muscle tissue. The myocardial tissue is made up of many different types of cells, each of which is made of a different type of cell called a cell type called a fibroblast. When the myocytes in the heart lose their ability to contract, the fibrosclerotic tissue becomes scar-like, and the fibrosis of the heart tissue is repaired. This process is known as fibrosis. However, it is not well understood how the fibrotic tissue responds to injury and how it responds to changes in the environment. To address this question, Ugolini et al. developed a device called a multi-chamber microdevice that can be used to study how the environment affects the activity of the fibrobeasts. The device uses a combination of mechanical strain and controlled changes in oxygen levels to stimulate the fibroid cells to produce proteins and other molecules that help to repair the damaged tissue. This allowed the experiments to be performed in a variety of conditions, including conditions where oxygen levels were low and oxygen levels high. The experiments show that the combination of the two stimuli is able to trigger different responses in the cells. The combination of these two stimuli causes the fibrous tissue to become more inflamed, while the combination also causes the cells to release proteins that are involved in fibrosis, such as a protein called PDGF-β. The results of the experiments suggest that the combined with mechanical strain may be a useful tool for understanding how the heart muscles respond to injury. The next challenge is to find out whether the combination can be combined with other stimuli to produce the same effect.
Genes are made up of DNA, which is wrapped around proteins called histones to form a structure called a chromatin. This structure is made of a protein called histone H4, which acts as a scaffold to hold the DNA together. The histones are made of two copies of each of the same amino acid, which are then joined together to form the final product, called a histone A. This process is known as active transcription, and it is essential for cells to survive and reproduce. In fruit flies, a gene that encodes a protein known as H2A. Z is switched on and off at different times in the genome. This is called active transcription. The gene is then transcribed to produce two different versions of the gene, called DOM-A and DOM-B. The two versions of this gene have different roles in the cell, but it is not clear how they work together. Now, Börner et al. have used a technique called CRISPRISPR/Cas9 to study the role of the two versions in fruit flies. The experiments show that the two types of gene are required for active transcription to occur. The first version of the H4 histone is found in the DNA of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. The second version is found at the same time as the gene for the gene that codes for the H2 A. Z protein, but in a different way. The results show that both versions of H4 are needed for the transcription of the genes, but through different mechanisms. The H4 A. V protein is required for the DNA to be transcribed, but not for the other H4 H4 variant. This suggests that both enzymes are involved in the same process. The next challenge is to understand how the two enzymes work together to regulate the activity of genes.
Neuromuscular junctions are the junctions between nerve cells and muscle cells that control the contraction of muscles. These junctions form at junctions called neuromuscles, which are formed when nerve cells connect to muscle cells. The junctions allow the nerve cells to communicate with each other, and the signals that are sent to the muscle cells are used to control muscle contractions. The neuromechanical junctions that form between nerve and muscle cell are called synapses, and they are important for controlling muscle contraction. The synapses are formed by a group of proteins called motor neurons, which connect to muscles via a process called synaptogenesis. The motor neurons are made up of many different types of cells, each of which contains a different type of cell type. In the motor neuron, a protein called β-Catenin is thought to be important for the formation of the synapse. However, it is not clear how β-catenin controls the development of motor neurons. Previous studies have shown that a protein in muscle called Ctnnb1 is required for motor neurons to form synapses. Now, Liu et al. have used a technique called transgenic mice to study the role of Ctnnnb1 in muscle cells to find out which functions it performs. The experiments show that Ctnnnb1 is necessary for motor nerve cells in muscle to develop into motor neurons and that it is also required for the motor nerve to form the synapses that control muscle contraction in mice. Liu and Tessier-Lavigne identified a protein known as Slit2 as a new retrograde factor that is produced by muscle cells in response to signals from the motor neurons in the motor cells. This protein is known to be involved in regulating the formation and maintenance of synapses between motor and muscle neurons. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how Slit 2 is able to regulate the formation or maintenance of the neuromouscular junction.
Tissues are made up of many different cells that work together to form tissues and organs. To form tissues, cells must be able to communicate with each other and exchange mechanical forces between them. This is particularly important for tissues that are constantly changing shape, such as the epithelial and endothelial cells that line the lining of the blood vessels. The forces that cells exchange between each other are known as force transduction. However, it is not clear how the forces that are exchanged between cells are controlled. To address this question, Tambe et al. developed a new method that can measure the forces exchanged between individual cells in living cells. The method uses a technique called high-resolution traction force microscopy and time-lapse microscopy to measure the interactions between cells. This technique can be used to measure forces at the level of individual cells, and to measure how the force is transmitted between cells in clusters of up to nine cells. Using this method, Tamme et al ’s first step was to measure force transmission between cells at individual cell junctions. This revealed that the force transmitted across a cell is short-lived, typically on the length scale of one cell diameter. The force is compensated for by other forces at other junctions that are more stable. Tambe and Tambe also found that force transmission through a cell depends on the position of the cell within the cluster. For example, the force can be transmitted along the cell cluster, but not through the cluster center, when the cell is dividing. This suggests that the forces transmitted through a cluster depend on the cell’s position within the cell. The new method also provides a new toolkit for studying how force is regulated in tissues. The next step is to use the method to study how force transmission is controlled in other tissues, including those that are prone to cancer.
Huntington’s disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by mutations in the gene that encodes a protein called huntingtin, which encodes an enzyme that breaks down proteins to make them into smaller molecules called histones. If the number of histones in a protein is too large, it can lead to a disease called Huntington’d disease, which is characterized by a progressive loss of motor and cognitive abilities. The mutation that causes the disease is encoded by a region of the huntingtin protein called the amino-terminus. This region contains a small molecule called polyglutamine, which can be added to the protein by a process called phosphorylation. The amino-end of huntingtin contains a region called an amino-titer, which contains a large number of amino acids. This amino-extended region is thought to play a role in regulating the activity of the protein. However, it is not clear how this region affects the structure of the entire protein. To address this question, Fodale et al. have now used a technique called circular dichroism to study the structure and activity of huntingtins, which are made from human huntingtin. The experiments show that huntingtin has a spherical shape with a central cavity that is likely to be made up of five distinct domains. The regions of the proteins that make up the central cavity are likely to fold to form a closed structure that is similar to the shape of a closed helix. The results of the experiments suggest that the poly-terminal amino-intermediate region of huntingin is folded back into a closed shape, which allows it to bind to other proteins and nucleic acids. The findings suggest that this structure may be a key factor that triggers the disease process in patients with Huntington‘s disease. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the polyglyutamine tract at the end of the enzyme affects huntingtin structure and function, and how it affects the activity.
Iron is essential for life on Earth, and it is also essential for almost all organisms to survive and grow. The levels of iron in a cell must be tightly controlled to avoid the formation of reactive oxygen species, which can damage the cell and cause damage to the body. The cell has evolved a number of ways to store and release iron from its surroundings. One of these is a process called ferritinophagy, in which iron is released from the cell’s outer membrane and then destroyed in a process known as autophagy. When iron levels are low, ferritins are destroyed in the autophagosome, which is a compartment within the cell that is responsible for breaking down waste products. However, it is not clear how ferritinas are released from autophagias and how this process is controlled. A protein called NCOA4 is known to be involved in ferritina degradation. However it was not clear whether this protein is also involved in other processes that require iron, such as the production of hemoglobin and hemoglobin-like proteins. Now, Mancias et al. have used a technique called CRISPR/Cas9 to study the role of NCOAs and ferritines in zebrafish and human cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that NCO4 is required for ferritine to be destroyed in an autophagic process. This process involves a protein called FTH1, which binds to a region of the protein called the C-terminus of the NCOAA4 protein. This region is found on the surface of the FTH protein, and interacts with another protein called HERC2, which attaches to NCO8. This interaction is important for the removal of ferritinis from autogasomes, and is also required for the release of iron from autologous proteins. The results of the experiments show how NCOa4 is able to bind to ferriti and is able, in turn, to release iron. The next challenge is to understand how feritinophagosomes are controlled and to understand what role this protein plays in iron-dependent processes.
Cognitive abilities are often measured by how well a person can perform a task. For example, a person’s ability to remember and remember information can be measured by the speed at which they can recall a particular sequence of events. This ability is often referred to as higher-level cognitive ability. The brain region that controls this ability is called the lateral prefrontal cortex ( LPFC ). Damage to this region of the brain can cause people to have difficulties with higher level cognitive abilities, but it is not clear how it does so. Previous studies have suggested that the LPFC is organized hierarchically, such that areas of the cortex that process abstract information are at the top of the hierarchy, while areas that process more concrete information are lower in the hierarchy. However, this idea has been challenged by recent evidence that suggests that this is not the case. To test this idea, D'Esposito et al. used a technique called functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to study the activity of the entire LPFC in healthy volunteers as they performed a series of tasks. The experiments show that the lateral LPFC was activated as the volunteers performed tasks that required them to remember the order of events in a sequence. This suggests that the activity in the lateralLPFC increases as the tasks become more abstract. The results also suggest that the mid LPFC plays a central role in processing abstract information to control behavior. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the midLPFC is connected to the rest of the lateral PFC and how it is organized in the brain.
Cortical expansion is thought to be linked to the evolution of higher intelligence, but it is not clear how this process occurs. It is generally assumed that the expansion of the neocortex during evolution correlates with the increase in intelligence, and that this process involves increased production of neurons, a type of brain cell that is found in the brain of primates. However, it is also thought that cortical expansion is associated with the emergence of uniquely cognitive skills in primates. To fit into a limited cranium, expanded cortical surfaces are folded to form gyri and sulci. To understand how cortical expansion and gyrification are linked to intelligence, researchers need to understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying cortical folding. One gene called TBC1D3 is a hominoid-specific gene that is duplicated in humans and other primates, but its role in brain development has not been explored. Now, He et al. have used a technique called in utero electroporation to produce a version of the TBCD3 gene in mice. The experiments show that this gene causes cells in the mouse brain to fold into the shape of the cortex. This folding is accompanied by the formation of a group of cells called outer radial glia, which are most abundant in primates and are thought to play an important role in the development of the cerebral cortex. Further experiments showed that TBC2D3 also promotes the production of basal progenitor cells, which can divide multiple times to produce many daughter neurons. These cells are also found in a region of the mouse cortex called the outer subventricular zone, which is responsible for the formation and maintenance of the ventricular surface. These findings suggest that the outer radial cells may be important for the expansion and folding of the cortical cortex. The next step following on from this work will be to identify the genes that are responsible for this process and to understand how they are regulated.
Plants and animals have evolved a range of ways to protect themselves from harmful microbes. For example, they have evolved the ability to recognize and destroy bacteria and viruses that are invading their cells. This is known as ‘systemic acquired resistance’. This process involves a protein called NPR1, which is found in the nucleus of many plants and animals. NPR1 is a key regulator of plant immunity, and plants that cannot produce NPR1 are unable to develop systemic acquired resistance. This suggests that NPR1 plays a role in regulating the activity of genes that are involved in plant immunity. However, it is not clear how NPR1 can do this. Previous research has shown that the proteasome, the enzyme that breaks down proteins, is responsible for removing NPR1 from the nucleus. This allows NPR1 to bind to its target genes and switch on the genes. This means that NPR 1 is able to activate the genes that the plant needs to survive and reproduce. It is thought that the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of NPR1 helps to keep NPR1 active and allows it to switch on its target gene. But it was not clear if this process is also necessary for NPR1’s activity. Now, Huang et al. show that the process of ubiquitination is not necessary for the NPR1 protein to be active. Instead, the process is controlled by two enzymes called UBE4 and CRL3. UBE3 and UBP6/7 are two enzymes that are known to be involved in the degradation of proteins. The experiments show that UBE6/6 and UBE7 work together to remove NPR1. This ensures that the protein remains active for a longer period of time, allowing it to be activated and activate the target genes. The next challenge is to find out how UBE8 and UB6/8 are able to do this without the need for proteasomes to destroy NPR1 in the first place. This will help to understand how plants can control their own immune responses.
Plants and animals use DNA as a template to build their genetic information. The DNA is made up of two strands of DNA that are linked together to form a structure called a genome. The first strand of the DNA contains the genetic information, while the second strand contains the instructions to make the proteins that make up the genome. In plants, the DNA of a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana contains a large number of genes that are active at the same time. These genes encode proteins called transposons, which can carry genetic information from one gene to the next. Transposons can also carry other genetic information that can be switched off by a process called RNA-directed DNA methylation, which involves adding a chemical group to the DNA that is present at the end of the gene. This process is called small interfering RNA ( or siRNA for short ), and it is carried out by three enzymes called RNA polymerase IV, RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase 2, and RNA-independent RNA-subunit 2 ( RDR2 ). These three enzymes work together to make siRNAs, small interfering RNAs that can bind to a protein called Argonaute 4, which then binds to the RNA polymerases IV and RDR-2 and binds to a molecule called DICER-like 3, which is responsible for adding a small interfering molecule called a cytosine to DNA. The resulting siRNA molecules are then cut into smaller molecules that can then be used as templates to make more siRNA RNAs. However, it was not clear how the two enzymes produce the siRNARNAs. Now, Li et al. – including some of the researchers involved in the 2015 study – including many of the 2015 work – have addressed this question. The experiments show that the two RNA-ubiquitin-dependent RNAs are made by two enzymes called Pol IV and Pol V, and that they are also required for the production of siRNA. The results of the experiments suggest that these two enzymes are involved in making siRNA from either end of a short RNA molecule. The next step following on from this work is to understand how the siRNIs are made and how they are generated.
When a newborn baby is born, its brain develops rapidly. The brain is constantly changing to become a complex network of cells and nerve cells that process information. This rapid change in the activity patterns of the brain is known as maturation, and it is thought that this process is regulated by changes in the timing of brain activity. However, it is not clear how the brain matures into a mature network of neurons. To investigate this question, Rauhala et al. used a technique called electrocorticography to record electrical activity in the brains of mouse pups and human infants at different stages of development. The experiments show that the activity of the mouse brain changes dramatically as the mouse pup matures. The activity of neurons in the mouse’s brain changes as the pup grows, and this change is followed by a brief period of relative quiet. This period of quiet is characterized by a transient decrease in activity, and the activity then returns to a more organized pattern of activity. This transition is accompanied by the emergence of a transient period of relatively quiet activity that allows the brain to mature into a more mature network. The same transition occurs in humans too, and occurs in the same way. The results suggest that the transition in activity patterns between the mouse and human brains may be similar to that seen in the brain of humans. The next step is to understand how the transition occurs, and how it is regulated, in the adult brain.
Malaria is the deadliest type of malaria in humans, and is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium falciparum, which is transmitted by mosquitoes. The parasite is able to evade the immune system of humans and other animals by using a combination of genes called var genes to produce proteins that bind to specific receptors on the surface of the host's cells. These proteins bind to the parasite's surface and allow the parasite to sequester within the host cell. Each parasite genome contains up to 60 var genes, and each parasite genome can have up to 70 var genes. This means that the parasite can infect up to 100, 000 individuals at any given time, and the parasites are able to infect a large number of different hosts at the same time. This is known as the ‘strain theory’, and it is based on the idea that the parasites have evolved to be able to produce different combinations of var genes at different times and places in their genomes. However, it is not clear how the parasite population can evolve into a stable strain of parasites with different var genes in a population. To address this question, Chen et al. have developed a mathematical model that extends the strain theory to include the var genes of the P. falcei parasite. The model tracks the dynamics of all of the different var gene repertoires in a large numbers of parasites, and shows that even under high levels of sexual recombination, strain competition mediated by cross-immunity structures the parasite populations into a subset of coexisting dominant repertoires of var gene genes that are all coexisting. This suggests that there is not a simple relationship between var diversity and repertoire diversity. Instead, the model suggests that immune selection plays an important role in the evolution of parasite populations. The next step is to test the model and see if it can be used to predict how well the malaria parasite population will evolve in the future.
Bacteria are able to hijack the immune system to evade the body’s defenses and evade the immune response. The bacteria Shigella flexneri, for example, hijack a process called the Ubiquitin pathway to suppress the immune responses of the human body. The Ubiquin pathway involves two proteins, a protein called UBC13 and a ligase called TRAF6, which are linked together to form chains called polyubiquitins. The two proteins interact with each other to form a complex that binds to the target protein. However, when TRAF 6 binds to UBC 13, the two proteins are no longer able to bind to each other. This means that the bacteria are unable to activate the inflammatory response of the host cell, which is triggered by the bacteria. The bacterial bacteria also produce a type of protein called OspI, which acts as a deamidase to remove a phosphate group from UBC. OspIs are found in bacteria and are thought to be used by bacteria to suppress immune responses. However it was not clear how Ospi works. To investigate, Middleton et al. used a technique called NMR spectroscopy and computer simulations to study how the bacterial bacteria use Osp I to remove the phosphate group. The experiments show that Ospia deamidates UBC, which causes it to become less able to interact with TRAF-6. This deamidation weakens the interaction between UBC and TRAF, which in turn off the signaling pathway. The deamidated UBCS also prevents the bacterial proteins from interacting with TRAFs6. These findings suggest that bacterial bacteria may be able to manipulate the interactions between bacteria and other bacteria to silence their own immune system. The next challenge is to understand how bacteria use this mechanism to silence the immune systems of their hosts.
The human brain is made up of many different types of neurons, each of which is responsible for a specific task. For example, neurons called interneurons are responsible for controlling the timing of electrical activity in the brain’s auditory cortex, a region of the brain that processes sounds and other sounds. The interneuron types that control this activity are called GABAergic neurons. These neurons are found in the auditory cortex of animals and humans, and are thought to play a key role in the processing of sounds. However, it is not clear how these neurons work together to control the activity of the cortex. Previous studies have shown that activating or inactivating a neuron can either increase or decrease its activity, depending on the type of information it receives from the brain. This is known as a “tune-to-noise ratio”. However it is unclear whether this is the case for all neurons. Now, Seybold et al. have used a technique called optogenetics to study the role of two types of GABAergic cells in the mouse auditory cortex. The experiments show that activating the neurons in the cortex of mice increased their ability to respond to sounds, while inactivation of the neurons weakened this ability. This suggests that these neurons support distinct roles in the process of processing sounds. But activating the same neurons in mice that had been genetically engineered to produce two different kinds of interneursons revealed no such differences. This shows that it is possible to read out the roles of different types by simply changing the way in which neurons are activated or inactivated. This means that the experiments can be interpreted in different ways. This raises the possibility that the results of experiments that use optogenetic techniques can be misleading. The next challenge is to find out how the effects of these experiments are influenced by the way the experiments are designed and interpreted.
Cognitive processes such as working memory rely on coordinated interactions between large-scale networks of brain regions. This is particularly important for tasks that require rapid and flexible communication across these networks. For example, working memory requires the brain to synchronize the activity of neurons in a network of regions called the frontoparietal network. This synchronization is thought to be important for working memory, but it is not clear how it works. To investigate this question, Vosskuhl et al. used a technique called transcranial alternating current stimulation ( tACS ) to stimulate the brain in healthy volunteers to see how it affects working memory. The experiments show that stimulating the brain with tACs improved the performance of a task that required the volunteers to press a button as quickly and accurately as possible to indicate the direction of an arrow. The stimulation also increased the activity in a part of the brain called the parietal lobe, which is involved in working memory processing. The results also showed that the relative phase of the stimulation affected how the brain connected to the task and how well the volunteers performed the task. This suggests that the timing of the tac stimulation affects how the volunteers perform a task. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the tach stimulation affects the brain’s ability to communicate with each other and how it influences how well we perform the task we are asked to perform.
Most animals, including birds, fish and amphibians, are able to form a complete embryo from a single fertilized egg. However, some animals, such as amphibians and reptiles, can form multiple embryos from the same fertilised egg. This is known as the ‘mosaic mode of development’. The embryo is made up of many different cells, which are then separated into two or more cells that will form the embryo’s head and tail. This process is called ‘splitting’, and it is thought that the splitting of the embryo can lead to the formation of twins, but it is not clear how this happens. In most animals, the embryo is divided into two halves, and the two halves of the chick embryo are separated at the same time. This allows the embryo to form as many embryos as possible, but not as many as it needs to. The chick embryo is able to do this because it can be divided into smaller fragments, which can be cut into smaller pieces. This means that it can generate as many complete embryos as it takes to make a single egg cell. The embryos of amphibian and bird embryos are also able to split into multiple cells, but this is not the case for the chick embryos. In the embryo of a chick, a protein called cVg1 is the earliest known to be expressed in the embryo, and this protein is required for the embryo's development. The protein is also the first to be found in the chick’scluster zone, a region of the egg that is adjacent to the edge of the cut off the embryo. The gene that codes for this protein, called Pitx2, is also found in this region. Bertocchini et al. have now used a technique called microarray analysis to screen for genes that are involved in the formation and division of embryos. This revealed that the gene for Pitx 2 is essential for the development of both the left and right sides of an embryo, but in slightly different ways. This suggests that the same ancient mechanism of polarity determination has been co-opted to different functions during evolution. The next step will be to find out whether the same mechanism also plays a role in other animals, and if so, to see if this mechanism is also involved in other animal species.
The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster is a popular model organism for studying how the brain processes information from the senses of smell. Fruit flies are able to sense and respond to odor, and fly larvae can even turn upwind when they encounter an odor plume. This is because they can detect the difference in the concentration of the odor molecules in the plume, which is a key feature of odor plumes, and can be measured using a technique called chemotaxis. The fruit fly's olfactory system is made up of two types of neurons: sensory neurons and projection neurons. The sensory neurons detect the odor and relay this information to the projection neurons, which relay it to higher brain regions. However, it is not clear how the projection neuron system can process the information about the concentration and the rate of change of the concentration. Kim et al. have now used a technique to study how the fruit fly’s olfaction system processes information about odor concentration. The experiments involved recording the activity of the sensory neurons in the fruit flies’ olfactories, and the projections neurons in their brain regions, as they responded to different combinations of odor signals. The results showed that the projection cells responded most strongly to the odor signal, and that the rate at which the signal was processed was the most strongly related to the speed of the change in odor concentration, and not to the concentration change itself. This suggests that the processing of the signal is important for fruit flies to be able to rapidly respond to changes in odor concentrations. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the activity patterns of the projection and sensory neurons are encoded in the fly's brain. This knowledge could help to develop new strategies for detecting and responding to odor signals in the future.
In flowering plants, the seed coat is the outermost layer of the seed, which surrounds the embryo and supports the growth of the next generation of the plant. The seed coat contains a protein called auxin, which is produced by the central cell of the embryo, and the endosperm, which contains the egg cell and the sperm cells. The endosperms are surrounded by a protective layer of cells called the ovules, which are made up of cells from the mother’s egg and sperm cells, and from the sperm cell. The seeds of flowering plants are made from a mixture of these cells and the egg cells, but it is not clear how the seed coats form. Previous research has shown that auxin is produced in the central cells of the egg and central cells in the seed cells, which in turn produce auxin in the ovule. However, it was not clear whether auxin also plays a role in seed coat development. Now, Figueiredo et al. have used a technique called microarrays to study the signaling pathways that control the development of seed coats in Arabidopsis thaliana. The experiments show that auxins are produced in both the central and endosparasites of the fertilized central cells. This means auxin must be transported from the central to the ovular cells, where it is then transported to the seed layers. This is where auxin acts as a signal to trigger the seed to form. In addition, the experiments showed that the gene that encodes a protein that is required for auxin transport is also required for seed coat formation. The next step will be to find out how auxin transports auxin from the end of the central egg cell to the endoplasmic reticulum, the organ that contains the embryo. This will help to understand how auxins work together with other proteins to control seed coat growth.
Bacteria and other microbes live in a complex environment, and are constantly under attack by viruses called bacteriophages, which can infect and kill them. Bacteria are able to recognize and bind to phages, and phages can then use this information to infect and destroy their host. Phages are made up of genetic material called DNA, which is packaged into a molecule called a genome. The DNA is then copied into a protein called a template that is then ‘transcribed’ into a phage. The template is then used to make a phagocyte, which then infects the bacteria and kills them. The phage then attaches to the bacterial surface and attaches to a protein on the surface of the bacterium called the receptor binding protein ( or RBP for short ). This interaction is essential for the phage to survive and infect the bacteria. However, it is not clear how this interaction works, and how it affects the phages’ ability to infect bacteria. To address this question, Yehl et al. developed a new method called ORACLE to create a large library of phage variants that can be used to study the interactions between phages and bacteria. The library was created by inserting a small number of changes to the DNA sequence of a phagar called the tip domain of the receptor-binding protein. Yehl and Yehl then used this library to select the most active phages that could infect bacteria that were able to grow on the bacteria, and then used the library to screen for new variants that could be engineered to be more efficiently. The results showed that the tip domains of phages could be adapted to different bacterial hosts. The experiments also showed that some regions of the tail domain were more likely to be active than others. This suggests that these regions are important for phages to be able to interact with bacteria. Yehal et al ’s findings could help researchers to understand how phages work and how they can be modified to target different bacteria. In the future, ORACLES could be used as a tool to study how bacteria and viruses interact with each other, and to develop new treatments for bacterial infections.
People with congenital amusia are often referred to as ‘amusics’ because they are unable to distinguish between different sounds in a spoken sentence. This is because their brain is unable to process the pitch of a sentence, which is a key element of speech. This makes it difficult for them to distinguish the different sounds that are used to make a sentence. However, it is not clear how the brain uses pitch to process speech. One possibility is that amusics rely less on pitch than non-amusic individuals, but it is unclear how this is reflected in the brain’s ability to process spoken language. Jasmin et al. used a technique called functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to study the brains of 15 individuals with amusias and 15 healthy volunteers. The volunteers were asked to read a sentence and then to listen to two different versions of the sentence, each with different pitch and/or duration cues. The fMRI scans showed that the volunteers with amuia were less able to connect with the brain regions involved in processing speech than the volunteers without amuias. This suggests that amuics have learned that pitch is not a reliable cue for processing spoken language, and instead rely on other dimensions of speech, such as duration and pitch, to make their judgments. The results of the fMRI study suggest that amauics may have learned to use pitch as an unreliable source of information. The next step following on from this work will be to investigate how the brains process speech in more detail. This could help us to better understand how amusic people learn to distinguish different sounds.
The Tasmanian devil is the only mammal that has two contagious cancers, one called Devil Facial Tumour 1 ( DFT1 ) and another called DFT2. Both cancers cause tumours on the face, neck and oral cavity of the Tasmanian devils, but they have been found in different individuals. DFT 1 was first identified in 1996 in the northeast of Tasmania, Australia, and has since spread widely, causing 100% mortality and drastic decline of affected populations. However, it is not clear why DFT 2 is more common in Tasmanian Devils than DFT-1. The two cancers are thought to have evolved from the same tissue, but it was not clear how they came to be. The Tasmanian Devil has a gene called MHC class I, which encodes a protein called a trimer that acts as a ligand for the T cell receptor, a protein that is found on the surface of the tumour. The T cell recognizes the trimer and binds to it to form a chain called a ‘chain’. The MHC trimer can also bind to other proteins, including those that are produced by other cells, which can also be recognized by the T cells. The tumour cells in DFT have been shown to be able to evade the immune system of the host, but not the T-cells of the T lymphocytes, which are responsible for destroying tumours. This suggests that DFT cells may have evolved similar mechanisms to those found in tumours found in other animals. Now, Stammnitz et al. have used a technique called flow cytometry to examine the expression of the MHC molecule in the tumours of Tasmanian Tasmanians. The experiments show that the DFT tumours in these animals do not contain the same MHC molecules as the Dft tumours, but instead have different levels of expression. This is in contrast to DFT, which has lost the ability to produce MHC proteins. Stamnitz and Stamson also found that the most common MHC genes in the cells of DFT are common in the Tasmanians, and that these genes are also common in other species of Tasmanians too. These findings suggest that the loss of MHC is not necessary for the emergence of a contagious cancer, but that it may allow the spread of the cancer. The next challenge will be to understand how DFT cancer cells are able to pass between individuals without triggering an immune response from the host. This knowledge could help scientists to develop
The brain contains a region called the granular retrosplenial cortex, which plays a central role in a wide range of behaviors, including navigation, memory, fear conditioning, and planning for the future. The granular cortex receives information from many different parts of the brain, including the thalamus, the brain’s largest brain region, and the thalamocortical cortex, the region that controls movement. However, it is not clear how these different areas of the cortex work together to carry out these different roles. To address this question, Yousuf et al. used a technique called optogenetics to map the connections between neurons in the granules retros plenial and thalamic cortices in mice. The experiments show that two types of neurons, called low-rheobase neurons and regular-spiking neurons, play a key role in this process. These neurons are found in a part of the granule cortex called the superficial layer, which is located at the base of the head, and they are able to respond to information about head direction, but not speed, from other neurons. The results suggest that these neurons are ideally positioned to support the processing of information about the head direction. The next challenge is to understand how these neurons work together with other neurons to process this information. This will help us to better understand how the brain works and how it can be harnessed to help us learn new skills.
Tau is a protein that accumulates in the brain and spinal cord, and it is thought to play a key role in the formation of a variety of diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, Alzheimer‘s disease and several other dementias. In these diseases, the protein accumulates into a structure called a prion-like structure called tau, which is then released from the brain into the spinal cord and other parts of the body. The prion is a type of prion that is found in the form of a protein called a ‘prion’, which can form when a protein in the prion protein is incorrectly folded into a specific shape. The tau prion can also form in the spinal cords of people who have suffered a traumatic brain injury, but it is not clear how it spreads from one part of the brain to the next. One way to investigate this process is to use animal models of tau pathology. However, it is difficult to study tau in animals, partly because it is technically challenging to grow them in the laboratory. To overcome this problem, Zebrafish are a popular animal model for tauopathy. Zebra fish are transparent and can be used to study the progression and spread of the disease in living animals, and they can be easily manipulated to study how tau accumulates and spreads in the brains of humans. Now, Kannan et al. have engineered zebrafish that produce a fluorescent protein called Tau4R-GFP that can detect the presence of the prions in their brains. The experiments show that this protein can detect prions that accumulate in zebra fish, and that have been genetically engineered to produce the same fluorescent protein as human prion proteins. The results show that zebrafishes that had been exposed to a shock wave caused by an explosion or a car accident develop a tau protein called p-Tau protein. The zebrafs also develop seizures, which are common in people who had suffered a brain injury. The findings suggest that seizures may help to spread prion prions. The next step following on from this work will be to test whether this new method can be applied to other diseases, such as CTE and Alzheimer”s disease.
The brain is made up of many different types of cells, each with its own distinct roles. Each of these cells has its own unique role. For example, a region of the brain called the cortex is responsible for processing information about the world around us, while another region called the prefrontal cortex is involved in thinking and planning. The brain is organized into networks of neurons that are connected to each other in a process called functional connectivity. This network is thought to be important for the brain to work properly, but it is not clear how it works. One way to study functional connectivity is to use brain imaging techniques called functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to measure the activity of individual brain cells. This technique uses a technique called fMRI to measure brain activity in the resting state, and to measure how the brain is connected to other regions of the body. This is known as functional connectivity fingerprinting, and it can be used to identify individuals who are more likely to perform well at a given task. However, it remains unclear how this fingerprinting technique can accurately capture the differences in brain activity between individuals. To address this question, Guntupalli et al. used fMRI data from over 1, 000 people to explore how the location of brain regions in the brain influences how well they are connected across individuals. The results showed that the location and shape of the different brain regions was strongly associated with how well the participants performed at the task. This suggests that fMRI fingerprinting can be useful for predicting how well a person will perform at a task, but not for predicting their behaviour. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how fMRI fingerprints of brain activity are used to predict how well people will perform.
Muscles are made up of many different types of cells, each with its own set of genes. The genes that code for proteins are expressed by a group of proteins called the ‘pre-initiation complex’. The complex is made up mainly of two proteins: TBP2 and TAF3, which are required for the expression of muscle-specific genes. However, it has been suggested that the identity of the proteins that make up the complex changes during the development of muscle cells, and that changes in this identity may be important for the ability of muscles to regenerate after injury. The TBP complex is composed of TBP, TAF4 and TBP-associated factors, and it is thought that TBP is required for muscle cells to develop into muscle cells. But it was not clear whether TBP does not replace TBP during muscle cell development. To investigate this question, Zhu et al. studied mice that had been genetically engineered to lack the gene for TBP. The experiments show that the mice that lack TBP do not develop into muscles, but that they can still regenerate their muscles. Further experiments showed that the TBP protein is not needed to make muscle cells in the muscle stem cells that line the surface of the muscle. Instead, the TFBP2 protein is required to make the protein complex that is found on the surface that encodes muscle genes. This suggests that the protein complexes are essential for the formation of muscles. The findings of Zhu etal suggest that the role of the TFIID complex in muscle cells may be similar to that of TFBp2 in humans. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether the TNFAs are also required for regeneration of muscles in humans and other animals.
Many neurological and psychiatric disorders arise from abnormal connections between neurons in the brain. This is because the connections between these neurons are not working properly, which can lead to problems with learning and memory. To overcome this problem, scientists have developed methods to stimulate the activity of neurons in specific areas of the brain to help them to change their connections. However, it is not clear how this leads to changes in the connections of the neurons. To address this question, Yazdan-Shahmorad et al. have now used a technique called optogenetics to stimulate neurons in two brain areas in two monkeys. The experiments show that stimulating one area of the monkey’s brain increased the connections in the other. This increase in connections was accompanied by changes in how the neurons connected to each other. These changes were consistent with the Hebbian model of brain plasticity, which suggests that the brain is able to change its connections to create new connections. The results of this study suggest that optogenetic stimulation could be used to treat neurological disorders that are caused by abnormal connections in brain areas. The next step will be to test whether this approach can be used in humans. This could lead to the development of new treatments for these disorders.
In humans and other primates, the primary visual cortex is responsible for the ability to see the world around us. It receives information from the retina, the light-sensitive tissue that surrounds the eye, and sends it to the visual cortex, which then processes this information to form a map of the world. The primary vision cortex contains a network of visual areas called the lateral geniculate nucleus, which receives input from the eye and then sends it on to the other visual areas of the brain. This process is known as ‘feedback’ and is thought to be important for our ability to navigate around the world, but it is not clear how this process works. In humans, the visual area of the primary cortex that receives input is called the primary retinal visual cortex. In addition to this area, other areas in the visual system also receive input from other parts of the body, such as the superior colliculus and the pulvinar, which are involved in vision. In 2018, a group of researchers reported that monkeys that had lost the primary vision of their eyes were able to move around their home environment, but were unable to recognise faces or food. This suggests that the visual brain may be able to process information about the world in the absence of primary vision. However, it was not clear whether this was due to the loss of primary visual ability or to the damage to the primary retina. To investigate this further, Mason et al. studied a female Rhesus macaque monkey that had been born without the primary sighted cortex. The monkeys were trained to touch a screen to receive a reward, but they were also trained to move in a different ways. The experiments showed that the monkeys were able only to touch the screen when the screen was showing moving dots. The monkey’s visual cortex was intact, and the monkeys’ brains showed no signs of damage. The results of the experiments suggest that the primary brain is able to support the activity of the visual network in the monkey even when it is missing the visual information. The next challenge is to find out whether this is the case in other animals, and if so, to see if this is also true for humans.
The human immune system recognizes foreign DNA as a threat to the body. This ability to recognize foreign double-stranded ( ds ) DNA is essential for the body’s innate immune system to defend itself against infection. However, the ability of the immune system of the human body to distinguish between foreign DNA and its own DNA is not well understood. This is because the DNA in the nucleus of the cell is not accessible to the immune cells of the body, and the immune cell cannot detect the foreign DNA. Instead, the DNA is stored in a structure called the cytoplasm, which is surrounded by a protective membrane that prevents the immune response from reaching the nucleus. The interferon-inducible protein 16 ( IFI16 ) is a protein that detects foreign ds DNA and uses it as a scaffold to assemble supramolecular signaling platforms in both the nucleus and the cyoplast of the host cell. However it is not clear how this protein can distinguish between the two types of DNA. Morrone et al. have now used a technique called fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) to study how IFI 16 recognizes foreign double strands of DNA and assembles into clusters. The experiments show that individual IFI proteins move along exposed dsDNA to assemble into distinct clusters and that the assembly of these clusters is blocked by a structure known as a nucleosome. The nucleosomes act as barriers that prevent IFI protein 16 from targeting the host DNA by blocking the movement of the IFI molecules. This unique scanning-assisted assembly mechanism allows IFI to distinguish friend from foe and assemble into oligomers efficiently and selectively on foreign DNA, which are then used as a template to assemble the signaling platforms. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether this mechanism is also used to detect other types of foreign DNA that can be detected by the innate immune response.
Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the brain and causes damage to the brain cells that carry messages between neurons. It is caused by deposits of proteins called amyloid plaques, which accumulate in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease. These deposits are thought to be caused by a protein called Aβ, which is found in the brain of patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Previous studies have shown that amyloids are made up of many different proteins, but it is not clear which of these proteins are responsible for the formation of the plaques. Previous research has used a technique called microscopy to identify the proteins that make up the amylid plaques and to identify those that are involved in their formation. However, this method is time-consuming and expensive, and it is unable to identify all the proteins present in the plaque. To overcome these limitations, Musiek et al. have developed a new technique called spatially targeted optical microproteomics ( STOMP ), which uses a technique known as two-photon laser scanning microscopy ( or STOM for short ) to capture images of amylids. This technique uses a laser beam to capture light from the microscope and then to attach a fluorescent tag to each of the proteins in the amelid deposits. This allows the proteins to be identified by mass spectrometry, a technique that uses a chemical technique called mass-based mass spectroscopy. The technique was used to identify 60 proteins that were found to be present in plaques from mice with Alzheimer ‘s disease, including one that was found in a mouse model of Alzheimer‘s. The results showed that these proteins were the most abundant in the deposits. The method is also suitable for studying other types of brain tissue, including human brain tissue and other types that are often used in research. The new technique could be used to study other diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and amyotropic lateral sclerosis, which are caused by mutations in the gene that encodes a protein that is involved in the production of the protein.
The nervous system is a complex network of cells that controls the movements of the body. The brain, spinal cord, and spinal cord are all connected to each other by a network of nerve cells called motor neurons. Motor neurons in the brainstem extend their axons to control muscles in the head, neck, and head, and the spinal cord is responsible for controlling the movement of the limbs. The motor neurons in spinal cord have long axons that extend over long distances to reach their targets. The axons of motor neurons that extend to the limbs are arranged in longitudinal columns along the rostrocaudal axis, and these columns are divided into lateral and medial divisions, which innervate the dorsal and ventral limbs, respectively. Motor axons in the lateral column of the spinal column are also found in the dorsal column, but it is not clear how these axons are able to grow to their targets in the ventral column. The lateral column is divided into two major groups: the lateral and the medial column. To investigate this question, Huettl et al. used a technique called microscopy to study the development of motor nerve cells in mouse embryos. The experiments show that the lateral columns of the brain and the dorsal columns in the limbs have defects in the growth of motor axons. In particular, the dorsal axons stall at a precise locations in the nerve plexus, a structure that controls how the axons grow. This is in contrast to the other axons, which do not stall and grow to the right location. Huerts et al’s findings suggest that motor neurons are programmed to die when they reach their target muscles. The next challenge is to understand how motor neurons communicate with each other cells in the developing nervous system to control their growth.
Genes are made up of DNA, which contains the instructions needed to make proteins and other molecules. However, some of the DNA in a cell is also made up entirely of ‘non-coding’ DNA. These ‘transposable elements’ are often referred to as ‘junk DNA’ because they can be ‘ticked off’ or ‘expanded’ by the cell to make new proteins. Transposons are a group of DNA sequences that can be inserted into the DNA of a cell, and are often used as templates to create new proteins or other structures in the cell. However it is not clear how these ‘enhancers’ help to regulate the expression of genes in the cells. Transpositioning DNA into a cell can cause it to become active or inactive, and this can alter the activity of the genes. Transcription factors are proteins that bind to DNA to control the expression and activity of genes. Some transposons can also be used as enhancers, which allow the gene to be switched on or off at specific times in the genome. However there is little evidence to support the idea that transposon-based enhancers play a role in regulating gene expression. To address this question, Sundaram et al. used a technique called CRISPR-Cas9 to edit the DNA sequences of mouse embryos and trophoblast stem cells. The experiments showed that a large number of transposable element families were able to regulate gene expression in these cells, but only a small number of them. This suggests that these transposones are not essential for the development of the mouse embryo. The next challenge will be to find out how many transpositional elements are important for regulating gene activity in mouse embryos. This will help us to understand how the human genome works, and how it can be modified to make it more like the human body.
C4 photosynthesis is a process that plants use to convert carbon dioxide into energy from sunlight. Plants use this process to convert sunlight into sugars, which they then use to power their own growth and reproduction. C4 plants are the most productive crops and native vegetation on the planet, and have evolved to be able to convert more sunlight into energy than C3 plants. Plants that use C4 are also more efficient at photosynthesis than other plants, but it is not clear how they have evolved this ability. Plants with C4 leaves have a complex set of features, including the shape of their leaves, the number of cells that make up the leaves, and how the leaves are arranged. The C4 photosynthetic process is complex and involves many different enzymes that are involved in making the sugars. The enzymes are made in the cells of the leaves of C4-producing plants, and the enzymes that make these sugars are also found in C3 cells. However, it was not known how these enzymes evolved to make C4 sugars. To address this question, Sage et al. used a mathematical model to model the evolution of the C4 phenotype in a wide range of species of plants. The model was based on the idea that evolution is a series of events that can occur at different times and in different ways. The models were then used to predict how C4 traits would evolve. The results showed that at least four distinct evolutionary paths underlie the evolution and evolution of C3 and C4 phenotypes. These paths were determined by changes in the genes that were not related to photosynthesis, and by changes to the cell biology of the plants that made up C4 cells. The findings suggest that the evolution is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers. This flexibility will have facilitated the convergent evolution of this complex trait. The next step will be to use this model to study the evolution in more detail of other complex traits, such as those in fossils.
Bacteria are able to survive by living in a stable and chemically stable environment. However, when they are exposed to harsh conditions, they can die and die. To survive, bacteria need to survive and reproduce, which requires them to produce new cells that can survive the harsh conditions. To do so, bacteria must first survive and multiply. To achieve this, they need to build new cells, which they do by using a process called endospore formation. The spore is made up of many different proteins that are found in the cell membrane and are found on the surface of the cell. The proteins that make up the spore coat are made of proteins called nucleotides, which are made from a phosphate group called adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) and a phosphate called guanosine triosphate. The ATP is the main energy source in a cell, and is used by motor proteins to move around the cell, while the guanine group is used as a switch to switch off the cell’s signal transduction machinery. SpoIVA is a bacterial protein that is found in a type of bacterium called Bacillus subtilis. SpoivA is also known as a GTPase, and it is found only in sporulating bacteria. However it is not clear why SpoIVI evolved from a common ancestor of GTPases. Castaing et al. have now used a technique called ‘re-engineering’ to re-engineer the active site of SpoIVIVA so that it can be modified to mimic its original activity. The experiments show that SpoIVAGTPase is able to hydrolyze ATP, but not GTP, in the presence of ATP. This is because the enzyme can only hydrolyse ATP when ATP is present, and so that only ATP can be hydrolyzed. This means that SpoivAGTPases can only catalyze the hydrolysis of ATP if it is present at the end of the sporulation stage of the bacterium. Spo IVA is not a motor protein, but instead is a protein that assembles into a static polymer that can only be activated by ATP hydrolyzing. This suggests that the abundance of ATP is a driving force that drives the evolution of the enzyme to use ATP instead of ATP to catalyze polymerization. The next step will be to understand how SpoIVGTPase evolved to be able to use the ATP hydrolysate to catalyse polymerization, and to understand why it has
The hormone leptin is a hormone that is produced by cells in the brain that control how much food and energy we eat and how much energy we burn. It is also important for the development of the brain, as it helps to regulate the brain’s ability to respond to changes in the amount of energy we have stored and the current state of our energy balance. In humans and other animals, the lack of leptin signaling in early life can lead to obesity and other metabolic diseases in adulthood. However, it is not clear what role leptin plays in the early life. To investigate this, Ramos-Lobo et al. genetically engineered mice that lack the gene that encodes a protein called the leptin receptor ( LepR for short ). These mice were then treated with a drug called tamoxifen, which restores the activity of the LepR gene. The experiments show that leptin signaling is essential for the mice to develop properly. The leptin receptor is also required for the brain to form the connections between neurons in the hypothalamus, the brain region that controls the release of energy. The mice that lacked leptin signaling during the first few weeks of life were heavier and had higher body fat mass than normal mice, but they also had lower levels of leptin in their blood and less energy expenditure in the dark. These findings suggest that the leptin receptors in early childhood are important for brain development. The next step following on from this work is to find out whether leptin signaling also plays a role in other aspects of the body, such as the reproductive system and brain.
Plants and animals use a protein called FLS2 as a pattern recognition receptor to detect and respond to signals from the environment. This receptor is found in plants and animals, but it is not clear how it does this. The FLS-2 protein is found on the surface of plants and other animals, and it is known to be involved in a variety of biological processes, including cell division, root development, and germination. However, it was not known whether plants also have other proteins that are involved in the immune system. The G proteins are a group of proteins that can interact with each other to form a heterotrimer, a structure that contains many different types of G proteins. Plants have several different G proteins, but they do not all interact with the same G protein. The Arabidopsis thaliana plant is a good model to study the role of the FLS receptor because it has been used extensively to study plant immune responses to bacteria and other microbes. In 2015, researchers showed that the G proteins that interact with FLS 2 are required for the plant to be able to recognize and defend itself against a bacterium called Pseudomonas syringae, which causes disease in plants. However it was unclear how these proteins are regulated. Now, Maruta et al. – including some of the researchers involved in that 2015 study – have used a combination of genetic and biochemical techniques to investigate how the G protein XLG2 interacts with the Fls2 protein and another G protein called AGB1. The experiments show that the XLG protein interacts with both FLS and BIK1, which is a protein that is involved in activating the immune response. The results show that when the G-protein complex is activated, the Gα protein is removed from the Gβ1 protein, which then interacts with BAK1, a protein involved in signaling. This removes the G β1 protein from the receptor, which in turn activates the G α protein. This causes the G alpha protein to interact with BIK2, which activates the FILS2 protein, and the G beta protein, leading to the activation of the immune responses. The next step will be to find out how the other G proteins interact with these proteins to regulate the immune systems of plants.
The plant Arabidopsis thaliana has a 24-hour circadian clock that controls the activity of genes in the plant’s cells throughout the day and night. This clock is made up of many different cells, but it is not clear exactly how the clock works. Previous studies have shown that the clock is able to synchronize with the day/night cycle in the plants it is grown in. However, it was not clear how the clocks of individual cells are coordinated across the plant. To investigate this question, Komin et al. used a technique called time-lapse microscopy to observe the clock activity in the cells of Arabidops seedlings grown in the laboratory over several days. The experiments show that the rhythms of the clock in the root of the plant are synchronized across the whole plant, but that they are not synchronized across all the cells. In particular, the clock oscillates in two waves, one going down and one up the root. The clock also shows evidence of cell-to-cell coupling, especially in the tip of the root, which is where the clock peaks. The results of the experiments suggest that the circadian clock is more complex than previously thought. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how individual cells in the clock coordinate with each other and how this coordination is achieved. This will be important for understanding how the plant clock works and how it can be controlled by different cells.
The human ear is the only part of the body that can process sound. The rest of the brain processes the sounds of the world around us, and the brain’s ability to distinguish between speech and background noise is essential for hearing. The brain uses a process called active listening to process speech, which involves the brain processing information from the background noise. This process is particularly important in noisy environments, such as the workplace and social settings, where people are likely to talk to each other. However, it is not clear how the brain uses this information to distinguish speech from background noise, and how it does so in people with normal hearing. To address this question, Parthasarathy and Kujawa set out to find out how the human brain processes speech. The experiments involved recording the brain activity of healthy adults who had been diagnosed with hearing loss, and who were then asked to complete a series of tests to measure how well they were able to follow conversations in noisy, noisy environments. The results showed that the brain processed the speech of the people who were most likely to struggle to follow a conversation. This was because the brain was able to process information about the background sound in a way that did not require the brain to process the speech itself. This suggests that the activity of the central auditory system, which is responsible for hearing, is important for the processing of speech. Parthasathasath et al. also found that people who struggled to follow conversation in noisy settings were more likely to have poor speech intelligibility than people who did not. The next step following on from this work will be to find ways to improve the accuracy of speech processing in people who do not have hearing loss.
The retina is the part of the eye that provides vision to the eye. It is surrounded by a network of blood vessels that supply the retina with oxygen and nutrients. The retina is made up of many different types of blood cells, each with its own unique shape and size. These tiny blood vessels are thought to play a key role in the formation of the retina, but it is difficult to study them in detail. This is partly because they are too small to be seen in the eye, and partly because it is hard to measure the flow of single blood cells in these tiny vessels. This makes it difficult to detect changes in blood flow in the retina that may be important for the health of the brain. To overcome this problem, Guevara-Torres et al. have developed a new technique that can measure the movement of single cells in the retinal blood vessels of the mouse eye. The technique uses a technique called adaptive optics to capture images of the blood flow of individual blood cells. This allows the images to be viewed in real time, without the need for a microscope or contrast dye to be used. This means that it is possible to measure blood flow at the level of individual cells in a living animal. The method was used to study blood flow from the smallest to the largest retinal vessels in the mouse retina. The experiments show that the technique can be used to measure single blood cell flow in a wide range of retinal vessel sizes, from small vessels to large vessels. The results show that blood flow is not uniform across all retinal arteries, and that the flow varies greatly between small and large vessels, even in the absence of contrast dye. The new technique can also be applied to other parts of the body, such as the heart and kidneys. The next step is to use this new technique to study the blood vessels in humans. This could help us to understand how diseases such as diabetes and heart disease affect the retina. It could also help to understand the role of blood flow and how it is affected by disease.
Plants use symbiotic relationships with bacteria and fungi to help them to survive and thrive. For example, a fungus called rhizobia lives in the roots of legumes, such as the legume Lotus japonicus, and it is able to attach itself to the roots to form a symbiotic relationship with a plant called arbuscular mycorrhiza. This symbiosis is essential for the plant to survive, but it is not clear how the plant and the fungus communicate with each other. The symbiotic interactions between rhizobium loti and the legumes are thought to involve a process called nodulation, in which the rhizobic bacteria attach themselves to the root hair cells of the plant. The roots of rhizoba and the plant cells of L. japonica contain two types of proteins called nodulin and nodule proteins. The nodulin proteins are made up of a group of molecules called nodulins, and the nodules are formed when the nodulin protein is present. The root nodules contain a group called nodule primordia, which are made of cells that are surrounded by a network of cells called nodules, which contain the bacteria and the root nodule protein. These nodules help the plant roots to grow and develop into nodules. However, it was not clear whether the nodule organogenesis process is regulated by the same genes as the nodulation process. Antolín-Llovera et al. have now used a technique called quantitative real-time PCR to study the role of a protein called SYMRK, which is found on the surface of plant cells. The experiments show that when the gene that encodes the SYRK protein is overexpressed, the nodular organogenesis pathway is activated. This is triggered by the presence of nodulin, but not by the formation of nodules in the root cells. This suggests that the nodulination process is not triggered by nodulin. The next step is to find out whether the same process is also triggered by other plant proteins that are involved in the nodulating process. This could help to understand how the symbiosis between rhzobia and the roots is regulated.
Animals play an important role in many fields of research, from neuroscience to ecology to medicine. To understand how animals work, scientists need to understand how they behave and how they interact with their environment. To do this, researchers need to be able to measure the positions of individual animals and groups of animals in a controlled environment. This can be difficult to do in the laboratory, where the animals are often not well suited to study. This is partly because the animals’ posture changes over time, which makes it difficult to track the movement of an animal’s body parts. To overcome this problem, researchers have developed a variety of methods for measuring the posture of animals. These methods are often more accurate than the traditional methods, but they are also more time-consuming and labor-intensive. To address this, Mathis et al. developed a new software toolkit called DeepPoseKit, which can estimate the posture and position of animals using computer vision. The toolkit uses machine learning algorithms to automatically estimate the position of individual body parts in images and videos. The software can be used to estimate posture for multiple animals at the same time, and it can also estimate the locations of body parts from images. The new software is designed to be easy to use and can be easily adapted to study the behavior of many different species of animals, including those that are difficult to study in the lab or in the wild. The tools are also easy to apply to other types of experiments, such as studying the movement and interactions of groups of individuals in a laboratory or field setting. The next step will be to test the software on a wide range of animal species and experimental setups, and to see how well it performs in real-time.
Inflammation is a process that is essential for the body’s immune system to fight off infection, injury, and stress. The immune system is made up of many different types of cells, including immune cells called macrophages, which are found in the bone marrow of the immune system. These cells are able to recognize and respond to a wide range of pathogens, including bacteria, viruses, and other microbes. When a pathogen enters the cell, it can trigger the formation of a complex of proteins called the inflammasome, which is responsible for triggering an inflammatory response. The inflammaes are made of a number of proteins, but it is not clear how the immune cells in the macrophage trigger this response. To investigate this, Storek et al. used a technique called chemical proteomics to identify the proteins that are involved in the formation and activation of the infammasome. The experiments show that a small molecule called GB111-NH2, which was previously unknown, activates the NLRP3 signaling pathway in the innate immune cells of mouse bone marrow. This pathway is activated when the cells are exposed to a chemical called lysosomal cathepsin, which causes the cells to release a molecule called interleukin-1β, which activates the infummasome and triggers the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. This cytokine then triggers the death of the cells. Further experiments showed that blocking the activity of the glycolytic pathway, which allows the cell to make sugars, also activates the signaling pathway. This suggests that disrupting this pathway is a trigger for inflammation and cell death in the immune cell. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether this pathway also plays a role in diseases such as type II diabetes, obesity, and atherosclerosis.
Cells use DNA as a template to make proteins and other molecules to carry out their tasks. DNA is made up of two strands that are separated by a double helix, which is made of strands of DNA that are joined together to form a structure called a helix. When DNA is damaged, it is repaired by a process called homology-directed repair, which involves the two strands being joined together at the same time. This process is called homologous repair, and it is carried out by two proteins called BRCA1 and BRCB2. These proteins are linked to a spectrum of cancers, including breast cancer and Fanconi anemia, and are involved in the repair of damaged DNA. BRCAs are also involved in a process known as homology directed repair, in which the DNA is repaired using a protein called RAD51, which helps to separate the DNA strands. However, it was not clear how BRCa proteins interact with DNA and how this interaction affects the repair process. Now, Buisson et al. have identified a region of the BRCAA protein called the ‘N-terminal DNA-binding domain’ ( or N-DBD for short ) as a critical site for DNA repair. The N-terminus of the protein binds to the DNA of the double-stranded DNA and stimulates the formation of a new double-helix. This allows the DNA to be separated into two strands, which can then be used to repair the broken DNA. Further experiments showed that the N-DLD can also help to exchange DNA between the two DNA strands, even in the absence of the RAD51 protein. This suggests that this region of DNA may be involved in other processes, such as the removal of DNA from damaged DNA, or the removal or repair of DNA crosslinks. The next step will be to find out how the NDLD interacts with other proteins involved in DNA repair and whether it can be used as a scaffold for other proteins that help to repair DNA.
Cells are made up of many different types of proteins that are arranged in different ways. For example, the actin family of proteins, which are found in all living things, are arranged into a network of filaments that are made of pairs of protofilaments. These filaments are made from a protein called actin, which is found in the cell membrane. The actin proteins are made by a group of proteins called the elongasome, which helps to build the cell wall that surrounds the cell. In bacteria, actin filaments form in pairs that are oriented in an antiparallel fashion, which ensures that the protofilsaments are able to interact with each other and with other proteins. However, it is not clear how these protofillaments are arranged. Now, Gayathri et al. have used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of actin-like proteins in the bacterium Caulobacter crescentus. The experiments show that actin is arranged in pairs, and that the two ends of the protosomes are oriented to form an anti-parallel arrangement. The protosome is made up mainly of two subunits that are attached to each other by a hydrophobic loop that is found on either side of the cell's membrane. Gayathrri etal. also found that the shape of the actins of the two of these subunits is very similar to that of the other proteins that have been studied in the same way. This suggests that the arrangement of actins is conserved across the bacterial kingdom. Gaythri eta. also showed that the actines of the proteins are bound to each end of the filaments in a similar way to the way that the helixes of the helices of other proteins are attached together. The findings of Gayathirri et a. al. suggest that the structure and activity of actines in actin are similar to those of other actin subunits. The next challenge is to understand how the actine subunits interact with the other subunits and how they interact with one another to form the proto-filaments.
Flowering plants have four petals on their flowers, which are responsible for opening the flower and attracting pollinating insects and other pollinating animals. The number of petals varies between species, but it is not clear why. For example, some species of flowering plants, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, produce four flowers, while others, such a closely related species called Cardamine hirsuta, produce only three petals. This difference in flower number is thought to be due to differences in the genes that control petal number between the two species. However, it was not clear how this difference evolved. To address this question, Pieper et al. studied the evolution of petal numbers in C. hirsutans. The experiments show that a gene called APETALA1, which is found in both species, is responsible for the variation in petal size between species. This gene encodes a protein that controls the activity of many genes, including those that control the number of the petals in a flower. In A. thalea, the gene is expressed in a region of the flower called the petal whorl, which controls the number and location of the four petal flowers. In contrast, the AP1 gene is not expressed in the flower whorls of C.hirsuta. This means that the number is variable in both plants. This is because, in A. hirutans, AP1 does not work in the same way as it does in C. thalianas, and so it is unable to regulate the number or position of the flowers. This makes it difficult to tell the difference between the different species. The results of the experiments suggest that AP1 plays a role in the evolution and evolution of the number ( or “characterization” ) of the different types of flowers. The next challenge is to understand how this process evolved and how it is regulated.
Insulin is a hormone that is produced by cells in the pancreas. It is produced in a process called insulin secretion, which involves the release of a molecule called proinsulin into the bloodstream. Proinsulin is made from a protein called pro-peptide, which is folded into a structure called a protein complex. The complex is made up of three pairs of amino acids, each of which is made of two copies of the same amino acid. The proinsulins are made by a process known as proteolysis, and the proteins are then folded into the complex by a group of enzymes called proteasomes. The proteasome is responsible for folding the proinsulate complex into the correct shape, but it is not clear how this process works. In humans and other animals, the proteasomal enzymes that make proinsulates are known to be prone to misfolding, which can lead to diabetes. However, it was not clear whether misfolded proteins are also present in the pancreatic islets, the cells that produce insulin. To investigate this question, Haataja et al. studied human pancreatic beta cells from mice and humans. The experiments show that in mice that are genetically engineered to lack a gene that encodes the insulin, the levels of proinsular proteins in the cells are higher than normal. This suggests that the proteases in the islets are more likely to misfold proinsulas than normal cells. The resulting complexes of proinulin are also more abundant in the beta cells of mice that lack the gene for the insulin-producing enzyme called the leptin receptor, which helps to regulate the production of the hormone. Haataj et al, therefore, suggest that misfolding proinsilinsulin may be an early sign of diabetes. The next step will be to find out how the proteins that make up the complex are misfoldered. This will help to understand how misfolders of pro-insulin contribute to the development of type 2 diabetes, and how this can lead ultimately to the death of beta cells.
DNA is made up of two strands of DNA that are wrapped around each other to form a structure called a chromatin. The chromatin is made of a protein called histone H3, which contains a group of building blocks called histones. The histones are made of DNA, and the DNA is wrapped around histones to form the structure of the chromatin called heterochromatin, which is essential for the formation of the chromosomes that make up a cell’s genetic material. In mammals, a protein known as SUV39H is a methyltransferase that can attach a chemical modification to histones called H3K9me3. This methylation allows the protein to bind to specific regions of the histone that are involved in the assembly of heterochrome. However, it was not clear how the protein’sclusters of DNA and RNA interact with each other and how this interaction contributes to its ability to attach to the histones of a cell. To investigate this, Ishida et al. used a technique called electrophoretic mobility-shift assays to study how the SUV39H protein binds to RNA molecules. The experiments show that the protein can bind to RNA and other molecules, and that this binding is important for its ability of the protein ( called the chromodomain ) to bind RNA. Further experiments showed that the nucleic acid-binding activity of this protein is independent of its methylation activity. The results suggest that the chromosome of the SUV39h1 protein is also important for the assembly and maintenance of heterochemistry of the chromosome. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the nuclei and RNA molecules interact with one another and how they interact with the DNA. This knowledge could help us to better understand how DNA is organized in cells.
The brain contains a region called the entorhinal cortex, which is responsible for processing information about the world around us. This region is also involved in memory and planning, and it has been suggested that it may also play a role in navigation. In particular, it is thought that the activity of a particular type of brain cell called a grid cell can be used to represent the location of an animal’s gaze. However, it was not clear whether grid cells could also represent the position of the animal's attention. To investigate this possibility, Wilming et al. recorded the activity in the entralial cortex of two monkeys as they performed a covert attention task. The monkeys were trained to keep their eyes fixed on a small dot that moved around a computer screen. The dot moved for a few seconds before changing color. The monkey was then asked to release a bar when the dot changed color, and the monkey was rewarded with a food-based slurry if it did so. The experiments show that the monkeys were able to track the dot as it moved across the screen. This suggests that the grid cells in the brain's entralinal cortex are able to represent not only the position and location of the monkey's gaze, but also the location and activity of its attention. The results also suggest that grid cells may be able to encode information about other aspects of the brain, such as the location or activity of memories. The next step following on from this work will be to test whether the grid cell activity is also present in the hippocampus, the brain region that is involved in planning and memory. This will be important for understanding how the brain processes memories.
Scientists often use mice to study how the brain works, but it is not easy to reproduce the behavior of these animals across laboratories. This is partly because it is difficult to study mice in the laboratory, and partly because they are difficult to distinguish between different experiments. To overcome this problem, Wool and International Brain Laboratory set out to develop a new way to study mouse behavior in the lab. To do this, Wool et al. trained 140 mice in seven laboratories in three countries to perform a task called the “two-alternative forced-choice” task. The task involves mice having to make decisions about whether to lick a spout or lick a drop of sugar water. The mice had to make these decisions by turning a steering wheel, and then report the location of the spout. Wool and international Brain Laboratory trained the mice to perform the task in a similar way across the seven laboratories. The experiments were conducted using a standard set of equipment and protocols, and the mice were trained in the same way in all seven laboratories, and all the experiments were performed using the same software and hardware. The results showed that the mice learned the task at the same rate in all the laboratories, with no significant differences between the experiments. The experiment also showed that mice in different laboratories used similar strategies to make their choices. Wool etal.'s findings show that mice can be trained to perform complex tasks in the brain and that the results can be reproduced across laboratories, which could help researchers to understand how the mouse brain works. The next step is to use the same tools and protocols to study the same mouse behavior across laboratories to improve reproducibility of the results.
The digestive system is one of the most important organs in the body, and it plays an important role in the health and well-being of humans and other animals. Injuries to the digestive system can damage or even completely destroy it, which can lead to serious diseases such as cancer and heart disease. To repair or replace damaged or missing tissues, animals can use a type of stem cell called neoblasts. Neoblasts are made up of cells that can divide to produce new cells, and these cells can then be used to repair or regenerate the tissue that has been damaged or destroyed. However, it is not clear how these cells are able to do this. To address this question, Bevilacqua et al. used a technique called laser-capture microdissection ( LCLCM ) to dissect the intestine of a flatworm called Schmidtea mediterranea. This technique uses a laser to capture and label the cells that are present in the intestine, and then uses a technique known as RNA-sequencing to identify the genes that are expressed in the cells. The experiments identified hundreds of genes that were not identified by previous approaches, and revealed that the intestine contains many different types of cells, including goblet cells, which are found in the middle of the intestine. The intestine also contains many genes that regulate the production of proteins that help the intestine cells to digest and transport nutrients. In addition, the experiments showed that the intestinal cells that produce goblets are more likely to be able to survive and grow than other types of intestinal cells. These findings suggest that the intestines of planarians may be a good model to study how the intestine can be regenerated. The next step will be to develop LCM techniques that can be used in combination with other techniques to study the intestine in more detail.
Many animals, including humans, use electrical signals to communicate with one another. These signals are generated by electrical activity in the brain, which is known as electrical activity. The electrical activity of the brain is thought to be important for many processes, including sleep, memory, and sensory processing. However, it is not clear how electrical activity is encoded in the electrical signals that animals use to communicate. One way that animals can detect electrical signals is by measuring the electrical activity that occurs in their brain. This information is encoded by electrical signals called electrical organ discharges, or EODs, which are produced by the brain's electrical circuitry. The EOD is produced by a group of fish, and it is known that some species of fish can detect subtle variations in the EOD waveforms of their own EOD signals, while others are unable to. This is partly because some fish have receptors on their body that fire a single spike in response to an electric stimulus, whereas others have receptors that fire at different frequencies. The neurons that produce the spikes in these receptors are located on the same side of the head, but they do not fire at the same time. This means that the fish can only detect signals produced by individual fish, but not by groups of fish. This suggests that the ability to detect subtle differences in EOD waves may be due to differences in the way that the brain processes electrical signals. To investigate this, Canavier et al. used a technique called electrosensory recordings to record electrical activity from individual sensory receptors in fish. The experiments showed that the electrical waves of the fish's body respond to electrical signals by resetting their phase, which means that all the receptors respond to the same electrical signal. This allows the fish to respond to signals from the same group of conspecifics, and the fish that respond most strongly to these signals are the ones that are most likely to be produced by large groups. This may explain why some fish are able to detect signals from a large group of individuals, whereas other fish are unable. The next challenge is to understand how the different fish species have evolved to respond differently to different types of signals.
Bacteriophage BPP-1 is a bacteriophagic virus that infects and kills Bordetella species that cause whooping cough in humans and respiratory diseases in other mammals. It has a capsid protein that encases the DNA that makes up the bacterium’s genetic material. The capsid is made up of two proteins: a jellyroll protein and a ‘cement protein’ protein that decorates the capsid. The jellyroll and the HK97 fold are two of the three main types of capsid proteins that have been identified in viruses. However, it is not clear which of these three types of protein is responsible for the jellyroll or HK97 folds. In the past, it has been assumed that the capsids of all viruses have evolved from a few distinct groups of proteins. Now, Zhang et al. have used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the three-dimensional structure of BPP head of the virus. The experiments show that the two major capsid-forming proteins in BPP have two different topologies. One of the proteins, called the ‘jellyroll’, is arranged in a jelly-like fold, while the other protein, named ‘Johnson’ is arranged more like a “Johnson fold”. The two topologies of the two proteins are different from each other, and the jelly-to-Johnson fold is the only possible alternative to the Johnson fold. The other two structures are arranged in the same way, but the topology of the jelly and the Johnson folds are not the same. Zhang etal. also, the two of these two structures were found in the capsides of other viruses. The results of the experiments suggest that the jelly roll and theJohnson fold are likely to be the only two possible topologies that are possible for viruses. In addition to the current knowledge of the structure of the BPPP-1 capsid, this work provides a road map to harness the unique properties of the head of this virus for phage-display engineering. The next step will be to use this information to engineer the head to display other viruses with similar topologies, such as those found in bacteria.
Viruses are a group of microbes that infect animals, including humans and other vertebrates, and cause diseases such as dengue fever, Zika and Chikungunya. Dengue and Zika viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes, which carry the virus to humans by biting them. The virus is able to rapidly adapt to its new hosts, but it is not clear how it does so. The genomes of viruses that alternate between hosts, such as arboviruses, are subject to selection in distinct environments, raising the question of how these viruses maintain their fitness over alternating hosts. To address this question, Acevedo et al. used a technique called deep sequencing to study how the genomes of dengu virus and Zika virus evolve in human and mosquito cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that the viruses adapt to their new hosts by changing the structure of their genetic material. This process is driven by mutations in the virus’ genome, which can be beneficial or harmful to the virus. However, these mutations can also be harmful, and can lead to the loss of the virus from the host. Acevedos et al ’s findings show that beneficial mutations are clustered in specific regions of the viral genome, while harmful mutations are distributed throughout the genome. This suggests that the virus needs to balance the effects of beneficial mutations with the harmful mutations to survive and evolve. The results of Acevedoes et al’s study suggest that the genetic diversity of the viruses is influenced by the balance between beneficial mutations and harmful mutations. The next steps are to understand how the viruses are able to adapt to different hosts, and how these mutations affect the evolution. This knowledge could help scientists to develop new antiviral drugs and vaccines that can be used to treat dengues and Zika.
Cells are surrounded by a membrane that surrounds them, which acts as a barrier that separates them from the outside world. The membrane is made up of many different types of molecules, including proteins and other small molecules that can interact with each other and communicate with one another to form complexes. One of these complexes is called Ras, which is found on the surface of many cells and is involved in a process called Ras signaling. Ras molecules are made of a group of proteins called Ras-associated nanodomains, which are found on both sides of the cell membrane. Ras is a protein that is found in the plasma membrane of cells, and it is thought that it is able to communicate with other proteins and molecules on the membrane by interacting with the nanodoms. However, it is not clear how the nanomains are organized and how they interact with Ras. Previous studies have shown that Ras molecules can move around the membrane in three different ways. One way that Ras can move is by moving in a ‘fast’ state, while the other two ways that Ras moves are ‘immobile’ and ‘slow’. However it was not clear whether Ras molecules move between these two states, or if they can switch between them. Now, Nan et al. have used a technique called single particle tracking microscopy ( SPT ) to study how Ras molecules interact with the membrane of human cells. The technique uses a technique known as photoactivated localization microscopy to track the movement of single molecules. The experiments show that Ras proteins can move in different ways on the cell’s surface, and that the two different ways of moving the protein are important for signaling. Nan and Garcia-Parajo used this technique to study the behavior of a protein called KRasG12D. This protein is known to be involved in Ras signaling, but it was unclear how it interacts with the cell's membrane. The results show that KRas12D moves in three ways: it moves in a fast state, moves in an immobile state, and moves in the slow state. This suggests that the different states of the protein influence how the protein interacts with its membrane partners. The next challenge is to understand how the different membrane domains control the movement and signaling of Ras.
Animals and other animals use signals called morphogens to control the development of their tissues and organs. Morphogens are proteins that are produced by cells in the embryo, and they can be found in different parts of the embryo. For example, a protein called Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP ) is a morphogenetic protein that is found in the dorsal-ventral axis of the developing embryo. It is thought that BMP is produced in the ventral part of the body, and that it is released from the ventrally-most cells to form a gradient across the embryo’s dorsal-posterior axis. The BMP signaling gradient is thought to be formed by a cascade of signals that flow from one part of an embryo to the other. However, it is not clear how the BMP signals are generated and how the gradient forms. In zebrafish and other vertebrates, a group of proteins known as BMP antagonists can block the production of BMP. These proteins are able to bind to BMP and block its ability to communicate with other cells. However it was not known whether BMP antagonist proteins also act as a sink that drives the formation of the gradient. Now, Ramel et al. – including some of the researchers involved in the earlier work – including Ramel and Hill – have used a technique called X-ray crystallography to measure the Bmp signaling gradient in zebra fish embryos. The experiments show that the gradient is quite dynamic and that the two main mechanisms that are proposed to form the gradient are not mutually exclusive. Ramel, Hill and Ramel have also used mathematical models to test which of these mechanisms are most likely to form. The results suggest that the source-sink and counter-gradient mechanisms are likely to be more likely to work together. The next step will be to find out which of the two mechanisms is most likely responsible for forming the gradient and to understand how they work.
Lysosomes are organelles in the cell membrane that are responsible for breaking down molecules inside the cell. The enzymes that break down these molecules are called hydrolases, and they are found in all eukaryotic cells, including humans and mice. The hydrolase machinery is made up of over 60 different enzymes, and the enzymes are able to break down a wide range of molecules, including proteins, lipids, nucleic acids and other small molecules. These molecules are then transported to the cytosol, where they can be used to make new molecules. However, it is not clear how these molecules get to the lysosome, or how they get out of the cell, and how they are transported. One of the most common types of transporter proteins that are found on the surface of cells is a protein called MFSD1. This protein is found in the membrane of the cells of the liver and spleen, but it was not clear what role it plays in these organs. To investigate this question, Park et al. genetically engineered mice that lack the gene that encodes the MFSD protein, which encodes a transporter protein called Mfsd1. The mice develop a severe liver disease that causes the cells in the liver to die. The experiments show that the loss of MFSD proteins in the mice’s liver causes a cascade of events that leads to the accumulation of platelets, which are proteins that help to transport molecules out of cells. The results of the experiments also show that GLMP, a protein that is also found in cells of neurons and other organs, is essential for MFSDD1 to work properly. The findings of Park etal suggest that MFSD and GLMPd1 interact with each other transporter proteins and that the two proteins interact in the same way. This suggests that the protein complex may be important for the normal functioning of the organelle. The next challenge is to find out if the protein complexes that form with MFSD, GLMP and MFSD are involved in the transport of other molecules. If so, this may help to explain why the liver disease seen in these mice is similar to the symptoms of a disease called ‘sinusoidal obstruction syndrome’.
Cells use a protein called kinesin to move molecules around inside cells. This protein is found in many different types of cells and is involved in a wide range of processes, including cell division, cell division and cell division in the cell nucleus. Kinesin is a motor protein that is found on a protein filaments called microtubules, which are made up of long filaments of proteins called tubulin and adenine dinucleotides. The kinesins are made of two parts: the motor domain, which is responsible for moving the molecules, and the ‘neck linker’, which acts as a ‘gatekeeper’. The motor domain is made up mainly of a single amino acid, but it is also made of many other amino acids, including one called adenosine triphosphate ( or ATP ). ATP is a molecule that is produced by a process called hydrolysis, and is used to break down molecules of ATP into smaller molecules called nucleotides, which can then be used as building blocks to make other molecules. The two motor domains of kinesina are found at one end of the microtubule, while the neck linker is found at the opposite end. When the motor domains are attached to the microtubes, the necklinker is pulled along the side of motor domain in the direction that the motor is moving. However, it is not clear how the neck links are held together and how they work together to control the motor's ability to move along the micro-tubules. To address this question, Li et al. used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to reconstruct the three-dimensional ( 3D ) structures of kine-like motor domains in the absence of ATP. The results showed that the kine motor domain's neck linkers are held in a closed conformation by a microtube, which allows the motor to bind to ATP and release the nucleotide. This allows the necklinks to open up and close the cleft between the motor and the microtube, which in turn allows the two heads of motor domains to move in the same direction. Li, Li, Zhang, Zhang and Houdusse then used X-ray crystallography to reveal the structure of the motor-tubule complex. This revealed that the neck ties between motor domains and microtubulules are held closed by the neck-linker, and that this closure is accompanied by the release of ATP from the motor.
Proteins are the building blocks of all living things, including animals, plants and fungi. Proteins are made of building blocks called amino acids, which are folded into specific shapes and sizes to perform their roles in the cell’s internal machinery. The ability of a protein to fold correctly is essential for the cell to work properly, but it is not always possible to keep proteins in the correct shape. This is particularly true for proteins that are misfolded, such as those that are not folded properly. Mitochondria are compartments in cells called mitochondria that are responsible for generating energy from carbon dioxide and other energy sources. They are found in the outer membrane of mitochondria, which surrounds the cell nucleus and is surrounded by a protective membrane called the cytosol, which contains the rest of the cell's internal machinery and contains the cell membrane. Mit mitochondria are also responsible for the breakdown of damaged proteins, which can lead to cell death and other serious diseases. To ensure that mitochondria perform their essential roles properly, mitochondria must be able to recognize and remove misfolding proteins. However, it is unclear how they do this. To address this question, Sontag et al. used yeast cells grown in the laboratory to study how mitochondria destroy mis-folded proteins. The experiments show that two proteins called sen2-1HAts and sam35-2HAts are degraded by a process called ubiquitination. The degradation of these proteins is triggered by a group of enzymes called the ubiquitin-proteasome system, which is activated by a molecule known as ubiquitins. The ubiquitinated proteins are then removed from the mitochondria and degraded by the proteasome. The proteasomes are made up of enzymes and other proteins that can be found in all cells, including humans and yeast. Sontago et al ’s findings show that the ubiquin-mediated degradation of the sen2 and sen2HAt proteins requires a combination of enzymes, chaperones, and other factors that are all found in mitochondria. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how these enzymes and chaperone proteins interact with each other and how they work together to degrade the mis-folded proteins.
Cells in the skin, hair follicles, and other parts of the body must be able to communicate with each other to produce the signals that allow them to grow and divide. This communication is controlled by a protein called ERK, which is found on the surface of many cells in the body. ERK is activated by a group of proteins called epidermal growth factor receptors ( EGFRs ), which bind to a molecule called EGF and release molecules called growth factors into the cell. These molecules are then released from the cell by a process called metalloproteinase ( MMP ), and the ERK protein is then cleaved by another protein called ADAM17. However, it is not clear how the activity of ERK in the epidermis is regulated. To address this question, Kamioka et al. used a technique called two-photon microscopy to study the activity in the mouse skin of mice. The experiments show that the activity patterns of the cells in a mouse’s skin are not constant, but that they occasionally show bursts of activity that spread from one cell to the next. This phenomenon is known as ‘spatial Propagation of Radial ERK Activity Distribution’ ( SPREAD ). The ERK activity in SPREADs spreads from a few cells to a wider area of the skin than in the rest of the mice, and it spreads over a radius of about 50 micrometers over 30 min. The speed of the activity spread was also associated with the rate of cell division. This suggests that SPREAD is a way to control the rate at which cells divide. The results of SPREAD are consistent with the role of the cell cycle, the process by which the cells divide, and suggest that the SPREAD may be involved in the development of cancer. The next step is to find out whether SPREAD occurs in other tissues, such as the skin and eyes, and whether it is also involved in cancer. This will help to understand how cells communicate with one another and how they are able to control their own growth.
Cyanobacteria are bacteria that live in the oceans and other aquatic environments, where they are able to survive in the cold and dark. Cyanobacteria have a complex internal clock that controls the activity of many genes, including those involved in photosynthesis, a process that converts sunlight into energy. The cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus, for example, has a 24-hour cycle of light and dark that is driven by the cycle of day and night. The circadian rhythm of the cyanobacteria’s genes is controlled by a protein called KaiABC, which is made up of a series of proteins called Kai proteins. The KaiABC proteins can be purified and used to create a molecular clock that can be used to monitor the activity and activity of the genes in cyanobacterial cells. The clock is able to respond to changes in light-dark cycles, such as dawn and dusk, by changing the time at which the genes are switched on and off. However, it is not clear how the cyanoblasts can adjust their circadian rhythms to these changes. To address this question, Heisler et al. developed a mathematical model that predicts how the circadian clock responds to light-night cycles. The model predicts that the clock can track the midpoint of the day, which corresponds to the mid point of the cycle, and that this midpoint is the mid-point of day. This means that the midpoints of the circadian cycle can be tracked by a simple mathematical models. The mathematical model can be applied to other organisms, including plants, animals and humans, and could help to predict the behavior of circadian clocks in other organisms.
The heart is the largest organ in the body and is responsible for controlling the rhythm of the heart. The heart beats at regular rates, but if the heart stops beating too quickly, it can cause sudden death in young children and adults. This condition is called sudden cardiac death ( SCD ) and it is the leading cause of death in children and young adults in the United States. The cause of SCD is not clear, but it is thought to involve defects in the heart’s sympathetic nervous system, a structure that connects the heart to the rest of the body. This nervous system is made up of cells called neurons, which are found in the brain, spinal cord and other organs. The sympathetic nervous systems of mice and other animals contain many different types of neurons, but the role of a gene called Meis1 in the development of the sympathetic nervous tissue is not well understood. Meis-1 is a protein that controls the activity of many genes in the nervous system and is known to be involved in many processes, including the development and survival of neurons. However, it was not clear whether Meis is also involved in the regulation of other genes involved in heart development. To investigate this further, Rataj-Baniowska et al. studied mice that had been genetically engineered to lack the gene that encodes the gene for Meis 1. The experiments show that the mice with a lack Meis2 in their nervous system have a more severe heart defects and are more susceptible to SCD than normal mice. This is because the mice have a heart rhythm that is not synchronized with the heart rate. Further experiments showed that Meis0 inactivation in the mouse nervous system causes the neurons to die, which in turn out and die. Further investigation revealed that the loss of Meis inactivation causes a number of genes that are involved in regulating heart development to be switched on or off. These genes are also involved with the formation of a type of cell called endosomes, which carry out many different tasks in the cell. The results of Ratajski et al. suggest that the Meis family of genes is involved in controlling heart development and heart development in mice and humans. The next step is to investigate whether the same mechanism is also active in other types of nervous system cells.
Bacteria live in communities called biofilms, which are embedded in a matrix made of proteins and other molecules called polysaccharides. These communities are often found on the surface of many organisms, including humans, plants, animals and fungi, and are often used as waste water treatment. However, biofilm communities can also cause problems in health and industry because they are resistant to physical perturbations and to antibiotics, which can damage the biofilm. To survive, bacteria need to be able to grow at different rates. This means that they must be capable of growing at different speeds and at different locations. This can lead to a problem with biofilm growth: if the growth rate is too fast, the biofila will grow too slowly, and so the biofilm will eventually become too large. To overcome this problem, scientists have tried to find ways to make biofilm grow faster. One way to do this would be to use a technique called ‘microscopy’ to study the growth of biofilmers. This technique uses microscopy to observe the growth and development of biofilm colonies. However it is not clear how biofilm cells are able to form complex patterns of growth. To address this question, Yan et al. used microscopy and mathematical modeling to study biofilmer colonies grown on agar plates. The experiments show that the growth rates of the bacteria are controlled by the mechanical properties of the agar plate. The growing biofilm starts out as a flat film, but as it grows, it becomes wrinkled and then delamines. This process is driven by mechanical instabilities in the growing film. This causes the film to become wrinkled, which in turn out to be a characteristic of the surface features of a biofilm, such as a petal-like shape. The next step is to find out how the mechanical forces that drive the formation of the petal shape are controlled. This could help scientists to understand how biofils form and how they can be modified to improve biofilm-related problems.
Neurons in the brain are made up of many different types of cells, each with its own unique set of genes. These genes are expressed in a variety of ways, and the activity of each gene can be controlled by a protein called a transcription factor. This protein binds to specific sequences of DNA to regulate the expression of the gene, which in turn controls the activity and activity of the cell. The transcription factor NRSF is found in the hippocampus, a region of the brain that is involved in memory and memory. It is known to be involved in the development of epilepsy, but it is not clear how it does so. Previous studies have shown that blocking the activity or activity of NRSF in the hippocampal cells of rats that had been exposed to severe seizures reduced the severity of the seizures. However, it was not clear whether this effect was due to changes in the expression levels of the genes that are regulated by NRSF. To address this question, Hammar et al. used a technique called microarray to study the expression patterns of over 1, 000 genes in hippocampi of rats. The experiments showed that the levels of NRSREST were increased after seizures, but only a small subset of these genes were repressed by NRSRENT. This was because the levels were too low to be detected by microarray, but too high to be seen by microarrays. The majority of the repressed genes were found to be related to proteins that are important for the brain’s ability to communicate with each other. Hammar and Whyte found that the majority of these repressed neurons were able to be rescued when NRSFencing off the transcription factor from the hippocampus prevented it from binding to the gene. This suggests that the activity levels of these neurons can be regulated by the activity level of the NRSF protein. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether the same changes in gene expression are also seen in neurons that are involved in other brain disorders, such as Huntington disease and stroke.
Sensory systems use parallel pathways to process information about the world around us. For example, the brain uses parallel pathways in the eyes and ears to detect motion and color, and in the sense of touch to detect pain and itch. However, it is not clear how these parallel pathways are formed and how they work. In the olfactory system, a group of cells called the mitral cells and tufted cells are responsible for detecting odors. These cells communicate with each other via connections called synapses that are found in the brain’s outermost layer of cells, called the inhibitory granule cells. The mitral cell and the tufting cell are thought to be the same, but recent evidence suggests that they are actually two distinct types of cells. This suggests that the two types of neurons may have different roles in the orofacial system. However it was not known how these two cell types are connected to each other. Now, Gschwend et al. have used a technique called optogenetics to study the connections between mitral and tuftsied cells in mice. The experiments show that mitral neurons and tuftyred cells are connected via different types of inhibitory neurons. This means that the cells are able to respond differently to different odors in different concentrations. The results suggest that the neurons in these two groups of cells work together to detect odors at different levels of concentration. This may explain why mitral or tuftyrd cells can distinguish odors that are of different concentrations better than those that are not. The next challenge is to find out how these neurons work together and to understand how they do this.
Muscarinic receptors are proteins that are found on the surface of cells and are involved in many processes in the body. They are found in the heart and other organs, and are found at sites called allosteric sites on the membrane that surrounds the cell. These sites are thought to be important for the activity of the receptor, but it is not clear how they interact with each other and how they work together to form a complex. The muscarinic receptor is made up of two parts: a part called the orthosteric site and a part known as the allosteria site, which is located on the outside of the cell, and the other part of the muscaric receptor, the orthostatic site. The two parts of the M2 receptor are found together in a complex called oligomers. The allosterias of the two parts are thought of as being linked together by a series of interactions between two or three of the three parts of a receptor. However, it is unclear how the allostias are formed. To address this question, Shivnaraine et al. have compared the effects of two different types of allosterics on the two types of receptor, called monomers and oligomers, and found that the effects in monomers are negative. The effects in oligomers are positive or negative depending on whether the two sites on a monomer are linked together or not, and arise from interactions between the three or more of the four parts of an oligomer. The results of the experiments show that oligomers can be used as a model system to study the interactions between allosterial receptors. The next step will be to investigate how the interactions are formed between the two forms of the receptors. This will help to understand how the two allosteries work together.
DNA is made of two strands of DNA that are linked together to form a double helix. When DNA is damaged, the DNA double-strand breaks, or DSBs, are the most catastrophic form of DNA damage and pose a great threat to the integrity of the genome. DNA damage can be detected by a protein called ATM ATM, which is activated by the presence of a chemical tag on the histone H2AX, which acts as a ‘beacon’ that signals the presence and activity of several proteins that are involved in DNA repair. ATM is also required for the repair of DSB breaks. However, it is not clear how ATM is able to detect and repair the DSB break. Previous studies have shown that a protein known as SETD2 is required for ATM to be activated when DNA is exposed to DNA damage, but it was not clear whether this enzyme also plays a role in the DNA repair process. Now, Varela et al. show that the SETD-2 enzyme is necessary for ATM activation when DNA damage is detected by ATM. The experiments show that ATM is activated when ATM is present, but not when it is absent. Further experiments showed that ATM activation is impaired in cells that lack SETD1, which suggests that the enzyme is also needed for DNA repair of DNA double strand breaks. The results also suggest that the activation of ATM is not the only the first step of DNA repair, but that it is also plays an important role in DNA damage detection and repair. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how ATM activates the DNA damage response in more detail. This could help to develop new treatments for cancer.
The immune system protects the body from infection and disease by producing a group of cells called T cells that recognize and destroy invading microbes. T cells are made up of cells that have a variety of different types of receptors on their surface, including one called the T cell receptor-specific receptor ( TCR ). TCRs are made by a protein called Rasgrp1, which is found on the surface of T cells. The TCR is activated by a signaling molecule called the Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor ( or RasGRP1 for short ). RasGRp1 is a small protein that is produced by a family of proteins called RasGEF. Rasgrps are found in the cell membrane and are involved in the development of the immune system. However, it is not clear how RasgrP1 is regulated in T cells, and whether it is important for the development and function of the TCR. To investigate this question, Iwig et al. studied a new mouse strain of mice that had a mutation in the gene that encodes a protein known as Rasgrpt1Anaef, which encodes the Rasgrpet1 protein. The Rasgrntp1AnAef mutant mice were found to have an increased number of CD44+ T cells and a lower number of TCR-specific T cells than normal mice. This suggests that the RasGRpt1anaef mutant mouse strain has a different role in the immune response than previously reported. Further experiments showed that the mutant mice had a higher levels of a signaling protein called mTOR, which helps to control the activity of T CRs. The mutant mice also had a lower level of the mTOR protein in their blood than the wild-type mice. These findings suggest that Rasgrtp1ansaef mice may be a useful model system for studying the role of the Ras GRP1anAef protein in the regulation of T cell development. Further work is now needed to understand how the mutant mouse strains of Rasgrupt1anasef are affected by autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes and thyroid disease.
Cancer is the most common form of cancer, and it is caused by mutations in genes that control the activity of many genes. Mutations in these genes can lead to the formation of tumors, but it is not clear how these mutations cause the tumors to grow and spread. One way to understand how cancer develops is to study the role of the genes that make up the complex of proteins called the SWI/SNF complex. This complex is responsible for making sure that the DNA inside cells is tightly packed into a structure called the chromatin, which is made up of proteins and other molecules called transcription factors. The complex is also known to be involved in controlling the expression of genes, but the details of how it does so are not well understood. To address this question, Storz et al. created a mouse model of pancreatic cancer in which the gene for a protein called Arid1a was deleted in the pancreas of mice. The experiments show that the deletion of Arid 1a causes the pancresis to change its shape and identity. This is because the pancrexis is a type of cell that is found in the lining of the digestive tract, and so the deletion causes the cells to become mucinous, which are the cells that produce enzymes and other proteins that help digest food. The deletion of the gene that encodes the Arid-1a protein causes the acinar cells to lose their shape and become mucous cells. This causes the cancer cells to develop into mucous tumors. The results of the experiments suggest that the loss of the protein in the early stages of the disease may help to explain how the cancer progresses. The next step will be to find out whether the loss the protein causes these changes in shape. If so, it may be possible ways to treat the disease.
Many animals use social networks to cope with stressful situations. However, the mere absence of a social network may also be stressful. For example, the absence of social support can lead to depression, anxiety and other mental health problems. This is particularly true for young females, who may be more sensitive to changes in social situations than young males. This suggests that females may be better at coping with stress than males. To test this idea, Wamsteeker Cusulin et al. studied mice that had been housed in the same-sex groups from the time they were weaned until the day of the experiment. The experiments show that social isolation alters the intrinsic properties of neurons in the hypothalamus, a region of the brain that releases hormones that are released by the pituitary gland. In the experiments, female mice were isolated from their littermates for less than 24 hours, and the neurons in their hypothalamus showed changes that were similar to those seen in male mice. These changes were not seen in males. By contrast, male mice were not affected by social isolation, but were more likely to experience an acute physical stress. This difference was not seen when the mice were housed in pairs or in groups. The results of the experiments suggest that female mice are more sensitive than male mice to the effects of social isolation. The next step following on from this work will be to test whether the same changes occur in male and female mice. If so, it will be important to understand how the brain responds to stress in females.
Hemoglobin ( Hb ) is a protein that helps to deliver oxygen to the cells in the human body. It is found in the lungs of mammals and other animals, where it is essential for oxygen to be transported to the heart and other organs. Hb binds to oxygen by binding to molecules called oxygen ligands, which bind to Hb to form a complex network. The binding of oxygen ligand molecules to the Hb protein is thought to be a trade-off between oxygen loading in the lung and oxygen unloading in the tissues. The Hb proteins that bind to oxygen are thought to have evolved to be able to switch between low- and high-affinity binding states. However, it is not clear whether this trade-offs are beneficial or detrimental to the organism. To investigate this question, Rapp and Yifrach used a combination of experimental and theoretical approaches to map the relationship between the binding affinity of Hb and its ability to bind oxygen. The experiments show that the binding ability of the oxygen binding sites of the protein varies depending on how much oxygen is present in the tissue. This means that when oxygen levels are high, the binding of the binding sites to the binding site is high, while when oxygen is low, the protein binds to the lower binding site at the same time. This is known as ‘cooperativity’, and it is thought that the higher binding affinity for oxygen, the more oxygen the protein can bind to the same binding site. The results of the experiments suggest that this tradeoff between binding affinity and cooperativity is important for the evolution of the proteins. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the tradeoff of binding affinity or cooperativity affects the fitness of an organism. This will help to understand why some animals are better at carrying oxygen than others.
Malaria is a disease caused by a parasite called Plasmodium berghei, which is transmitted by bites from mosquitoes. The parasites infect the skin of humans and other mammals, where they are known as sporozoites. The parasite is able to move through the skin to reach the blood vessels that supply the body with oxygen and nutrients, where it enters the bloodstream. Sporozoites are able to do this by moving in a circular pattern, but it is not clear how they do so. Previous studies have shown that sporozoite proteins called circumsporozoite and thrombospondin-related anonymous ( TRAP ) are important for the parasite to exit the skin. However, it was not clear whether these proteins also play a role in the movement of the parasite. To investigate this further, Ejigiri et al. used microscopy to study the movements of the sporozoitic parasites in mice. The experiments show that the parasites move in two types of motion. In the first, the parasites travel in a circle-like pattern, which allows them to enter the blood supply. The second, they move in a more confined pattern, where the parasites are more likely to encounter blood vessels. The results suggest that the speed at which the parasites can move is important for their exit from the skin, and that the parasite's ability to move in this way is important to allow it to enter blood vessels and infect the blood. The next step will be to find out which proteins are required for the parasites to use to move around blood vessels, and to enter them. This could help to develop a malaria vaccine.
Cells are made up of many different types of cells, each with its own set of proteins. These proteins are organized into modules that perform different roles. For example, a module called a polarity module is made of a protein called Cdc42, which is essential for a yeast cell to grow and divide. However, it is not clear how modules evolve to perform the same roles. One way to find out is to compare the evolution of modules in closely related species, but it is difficult to do this in species that are not related to each other. To address this question, Wildenberg et al. used a technique called evolutionary biology to study how yeast cells evolved over 1000 generations. The experiments show that yeast cells that lack a gene called BEM1 were able to survive for 1000 generations without this gene. The yeast cells did not grow as quickly as normal cells, but they did grow at a much higher rate than normal cells. This suggests that the yeast cells are able to adapt to changes in their environment. Wildenberg and Murray then used a combination of genetic and biochemical techniques to examine how the genes that control the polarization of the yeast cell were altered. This revealed that the mutations were all present in the same order, and that they were all inactivated at the same time. The mutations were also found to improve the speed and accuracy of the polarization process. The next step following on from this work will be to investigate how cells recover from the loss of the Bem1 gene and other mutations in the polarization module. This will help to understand how the evolution process works, and how it can lead to rapid divergence in the parts of the modules of the cell that perform the most important roles.
Many decisions in everyday life are based on the fact that they are likely to have long-term consequences. For example, a decision about whether to buy a mobile phone may be a good investment for many years, but it may also cause frustration for several months. Other decisions may reverse a previous commitment, for example when deciding to sell stock options or to end a failing relationship. In these types of decisions, prospects are irreversibly delayed, and the consequences of any future change of mind are often negative. However, many decisions are not well captured by this paradigm, because they require long-lasting commitment to a prospect in anticipation of a sustained economic return, and with penalties incurred by any future changes of mind. This means that most decisions made in the laboratory are not made in isolation, but rather in a series of independent decisions. For instance, a university student might decide to opt for a course after attending an interesting first seminar ( acceptance ), or to wait until after a second seminar to make a commitment ( rejection ). Similarly, a student might choose to drop a course ( rejection or rule out ) after attending a particularly boring lecture ( rejection, or rule-out ). This suggests that many decisions often have lasting consequences, as when choosing a partner or buying a car. The brain regions that control decision-making in humans and other animals are called the medial prefrontal cortex and the rostromedial prefrontal cortex, which are involved in making decisions about what to do and when to do it. The latter is thought to be involved in the decision making process, but the role of these regions has remained unclear. To investigate this, Kolling et al. asked 20 healthy volunteers to perform a task that mimicked a gambling task. The volunteers had to choose between two options: either to accept a prospect ( acceptance or rejection ) or to reject it ( acceptance by commitment ). In the latter case, participants had to decide whether to accept or reject the prospect. The experiments showed that the medial frontal cortex of the volunteers encoded the value of the prospect only when the participants accepted or rejected it. By contrast, the medial parietal cortex encoded value only when participants rejected or deferred accepting a prospect. These findings suggest that the prefrontal cortex is involved in integrating value signals across prospects and time, whereas the medial temporal cortex is relevant to whether a currently available prospect is preferred or not. The next challenge is to understand how the medial cortex encodes value across time and assets, potentially to calculate the value for prospective states or investments.
Genes encode the instructions needed to make proteins, and other molecules of DNA, which are essential for life. The activity of these genes is controlled by a complex network of proteins called the circadian clock, which controls the activity of thousands of genes. The circadian clock is made up of a series of proteins that are active at different times of the day and night, and it is thought to be controlled by the transcription of messenger RNA ( or mRNA ) molecules that carry the instructions for the proteins. However, it is not clear how the circadian clocks are controlled. Paraspeckles are a group of proteins found in the nucleus of cells that are found in close proximity to the genes that code for proteins. These proteins are thought to control the expression of the genes by keeping the mRNA molecules in place in the nuclear compartment of the cell. Paraspesckles contain a number of different types of RNA molecules, including one called Neat1, which is found in almost all of the cells in the body and tissues of animals. However it was not clear whether the paraspeckle proteins also control the production of the proteins that make up the circadian rhythm of gene expression. Now, Guillaumond et al. have used a technique called real-time video-microscopy to show that paraspecker proteins are indeed present in rat pituitary cells. The experiments show that all four of the four proteins that form paraspecko bodies are active during the day, and that they are also active at the same time of day. The paraspecki proteins are also found in other cells, including the liver and spleen, and are also involved in the circadian rhythms of genes in these cells. This suggests that the circadian genes are controlled by paraspekiels. The next step following on from this work is to understand how the paraskiels control the activity and activity of other genes in the same way.
Neurons communicate with each other by sending electrical signals called action potentials that travel along the length of the cell membrane that surrounds the cell. The electrical signals are then converted into chemical signals that are then passed to the next neuron via a process called synaptic transmission. The activity of a neuron is controlled by the activity of its synapse, which is made up of two types of cells: neurons called synapses and neurons called presynaptic neurons. The synapse is made of two distinct types of neurons: neurons that communicate with one another via the release of neurotransmitters, and neurons with calcium channels that allow calcium ions to flow into and out of the synapse. The calcium channels are found in the membrane of the neuron and can open and close in response to electrical signals. However, it is not clear how the calcium channels work. Previous studies have shown that a protein called Munc13, which plays a central role in all known forms of chemical synaptic transmission, interacts with calcium channel proteins. However it was not clear whether this interaction affects the calcium channel activity. Now, Hoppa et al. show that Munc 13 interacts with voltage-gated calcium channels in a way that controls how the channels respond to electrical activity. The experiments show that a region of Munc-13 called the C2B domain interacts with a calcium channel protein that is found on the surface of the protein. This region is known to interact with a number of other proteins, including one called syntaxin, which helps to assemble the proteins that are needed to release the neurotransmitter. Hoppa-13 also interacts with the calcium ion channels. When Hoppa and Yue removed Munc12 from the synapses of neurons that had been genetically engineered to lack Munc17, the calcium ions were less able to enter the cell, and the channels were more likely to open. This suggests that the interaction between Munc23 and calcium channels is important for controlling the rate at which calcium ions enter and leave the cell and how quickly the channels open. The next challenge is to find out how this interaction is controlled and to understand how it affects how the ion channels work and how the activity is controlled.
Plants and animals are surrounded by a protective layer of cells called the epidermis, which is made up of many different types of cells. The epidermal cells of plants and animals have a variety of shapes and sizes, including those found in leaves, roots and stems. These cells are often called puzzle-shaped, and are often used to study plant growth and development. However, it is not clear how these cells are able to grow and develop into these complex shapes. One possibility is that they are formed by a process called ‘puzzle cell formation’. In this process, the cell wall of the cell grows in a process known as isotropic growth, in which cells grow in two directions. This means that the cell walls of the cells in a tissue grow in the opposite direction to those in the surrounding tissue. This allows the cells to grow in a single direction, which allows them to grow at the same rate as the surrounding tissues. However it is unclear how the cells of a tissue that grows in two ways, such as the leaves and stems of a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana, can become puzzle-like. To address this question, Mosca et al. used computer simulations to test the idea that the shape of a cell can be controlled by mechanical stress. The simulations show that when a cell is growing, it becomes more stressed when it is surrounded by large open areas. This causes the cell to become more open, which in turn causes more stress on the surrounding cells. This in turn, in turn the cell into a puzzle-shape. The model also shows that the cells that form the puzzle shape have a mechanism that can reduce the amount of cellulose and other cell wall material that is needed to support the cells. These findings suggest that a mechanical stress mechanism may be responsible for the formation of the puzzle cells of many plant species. The next challenge will be to understand how this mechanism works, and how it works in detail.
Genes are made up of DNA molecules called exons and introns, which can be either short or long. Most human genes contain multiple introns and short exons, and the two types of exons are separated by a short section called an intron, which is known as a ‘cross-intron’, and a longer section known as an ‘exon-exon’. The human genome contains a large number of genes that contain multiple exons. To make a gene, a gene must be transcribed into a molecule called a pre-mRNA molecule, which contains a short exon and a long intron. This pre-RNA molecule is then used to make a protein called a spliceosome, which then cuts the pre- mRNA molecule in two. The pre-spliceosomes are made of three proteins called U1, U2 and U4, which are found in the nucleus of the cell. The U1 and U2 proteins interact with each other to form a complex that can then be used to form the splicing machinery that makes the spliceo-mRNAs. However, it is not clear how the two groups of proteins work together to make the splices. To investigate this question, Braun and Gelles used a technique called ‘single-molecule spectroscopy’ to study the interactions of single pre-RNAs with individual splicing subcomplexes in human cells. The experiments show that the U1 subcomplex bound to the 5' splice site on the intron acts jointly with the U2 subcomplex to increase the rate and efficiency of the assembly of the spliced RNA molecules. This is because the two U1 proteins are bound to each other at the same time. The other U2 protein is bound to a third subcomplex at the 3' end of the next intron and is recruited to the branch site of the upstream intron by the 5’ splice sites on either the 5th or the 3’ end of an exon. The results of the experiments suggest that the cross-introns and exons work together in the same way to make splice-m RNAs. This synergy is likely important to ensure that the splicosomes make the correct amount of RNA molecules, and that this synergy is important for making the correct number of splice molecules. The next challenge is to understand how the cross and cross-exons work in concert to make these
Proteins are made up of a series of building blocks called amino acids that are folded into a three-dimensional shape to form a complex structure called a protein. These proteins are made in a compartment called the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ), where they are packaged into a membrane that surrounds the cell. If the protein is not folded correctly, it can be destroyed by a process called ER associated degradation ( ERAD ). ERAD is a complex process in which the proteins are removed from the ER and then destroyed by the proteasome, a group of enzymes and chaperones that help the protein to fold properly. However, if ERAD fails to work properly, the protein can be targeted for destruction. This can lead to diseases such as cystic fibrosis and anthrax toxin receptor 2, two proteins that are involved in the formation of gap junctions between the cell membrane and the cell’s plasma membrane. The Wnt signaling pathway is a protein that is involved in many human diseases, including cancer, osteoporosis and metabolic diseases. It is thought that mutations in the Wnt pathway can cause the protein Wnt to fold incorrectly, leading to the development of these diseases. To understand how Wnt proteins fold correctly, researchers need to understand how they are recognized by ERAD and how they interact with other proteins in the ER. Now, Wing et al. have identified a new protein folding assistance system that works on Wnt-related protein 6 ( LRP6 ), a protein involved in Wnt signalling. The experiments show that the protein undergoes ubiquitination, a chemical modification that allows it to remain bound to the ER, while it is removed by another enzyme called USP19. This enzyme removes ubiquitin from the protein, which then removes it from the cell surface. This process is similar to the process that occurs when a protein is folded in the cell, and is thought to help to prevent the protein from being destroyed. Wing and colleagues also found that the same system also works on other proteins involved in other diseases, such as CFTR, which are involved with the formation and function of gap-junctionalization junctions in cells. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether this system also helps other proteins to fold correctly and whether it also helps to control the activity of other proteins.
Almost every neuropsychiatric condition is influenced by sex. For example, people with addictions, depression and addictions tend to be more likely to have a sex-biased risk of developing addiction or depression. This suggests that sex-based differences in risk factors may also contribute to differences in vulnerability to these conditions. However, it is not clear how sex-specific differences in decision-making contribute to these differences. One way to investigate this is to use computer models to study how individuals learn and adapt to changes in their environment. This could help researchers to understand how sex differences in cognitive processes can contribute to different outcomes in different conditions. To test this idea, Ebitz et al. trained male and female mice to solve a puzzle called a restless two-armed bandit. The task involved making a choice between two options, one of which was rewarding and the other was not. The mice were then asked to repeat the same choice a second time. The results showed that male mice were more likely than females to explore the same option, but they were also slower to do so. This was partly because they were less likely to start exploring once they had started, but also because they had to explore for longer to learn which option was worth exploring. In contrast, female mice were faster to explore and learn about the environment, and were more willing to start exploiting a favored choice when they found it. This means that male and females were more able to learn about their environment and the reward it offered. This may explain why male mice tend to get stuck in exploration for longer than female mice. The experiments also show that sex differences are not just due to the differences in the behavior of the two sexes. Instead, sex differences may be due to sex-related differences in how the brain processes information about the world. The next step is to find out whether sex differences between individuals contribute to the different outcomes of the task. This will help scientists to better understand the underlying mechanisms that underlie sex-dependent differences in behavior. In the future, these findings could also help researchers understand why some people are more likely or less likely than others to develop addictions and depression.
Proteins are made up of a series of building blocks called amino acids, which are folded into a three-dimensional shape. These proteins are then removed from the cell’s outer membrane, which surrounds the cell nucleus, and are then degraded by a process called endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation ( ERAD ). ERAD removes misfolded, unassembled and mistargeted proteins from the membrane of the cell, which is known as the endoproteome. This process is called ERAD and is essential for the cell to survive and work properly. The ERAD process involves a group of enzymes called ubiquitin ligases, which attach to proteins to form chains of ubiquitins, which then bind to the proteins and are broken down by a protein-making enzyme called Cdc48. The ubiquitination process is thought to be a key step in the removal of membrane proteins from cells. However, it is not clear how the ubiquitine ligases work together to remove membrane proteins. To investigate this question, Guo et al. used a technique called reconstituted systems to study the role of ubiquitylation in yeast cells. The experiments show that a protein called Doa10 is a retrotranslocase that helps to extract membrane proteins that have been degraded by ERAD. This protein is found in the endoplasms of yeast cells and is known to be involved in the degradation of proteins that are not properly folded. The retrotranslocation process involves the ubiquite ligases attaching to membrane proteins, but it was not known how they do this. Guo and Guo found that the ubiquitylated ligases are able to move membrane proteins across the membrane. The enzymes are able do this by pulling on a protein that is bound to ubiquitines. This allows the membrane proteins to be extracted from the cytosol, where they are degraded. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the enzymes that pull on membrane proteins interact with each other and how they work together. This will help to understand the role that ubiquitina ligases play in ERAD, and how this process is regulated.
Hedgehog proteins are a group of proteins that help to control the development of animals, including humans and invertebrates. Hedgehog proteins bind to DNA and control the activity of genes in the cell by altering the way that the genes are expressed. For example, a protein called Cubitus Interruptus ( or Ci for short ) is responsible for regulating the activity and activity of a gene called Ci-155, which encodes a protein that is essential for the production of the Hedgehog protein. The Hh protein is produced by cells in the wing of fruit fly larvae, and it is found in the wings of adult flies. Hh is produced in a region of the wing called the anterior compartment, which is located at the border between the wing and the body of the larva. In fruit flies, the Hh proteins are produced in the posterior compartment, and the Ci protein is only produced in cells at the anterior-posterior border. This means that Hh can only be produced in this region of cells if it is present in a high concentration. However, it is not clear how Hh controls the activity levels of the Cis-155 protein in the cells of adult fruit flies. Garcia-Garcia et al. have now used a technique called CRISPR-Cas to study the role of Cis in fruit fly wing development. The experiments show that HH can produce Cis and other Cis proteins in the anterior cells of fruit flies in the same way as it does in adult flies, and that lack the gene that encodes the Csi protein. This suggests that Cis is not only involved in regulating the expression of Hh, but also in controlling the levels of other proteins that are involved in Hh signaling. The Cis protein levels in adult fruit fly cells were also normal. This shows that H-h signaling does not require Cis to be present in the embryo, and suggests that the Cs are not involved in the regulation of Csis activity. The next challenge is to understand how Cis regulates the levels and activities of other Csis proteins in fruit flies and other animals.
The spinal cord receives information about the body’s physical sensations from the body, such as touch, temperature and touch sensations. This information is then processed in a region of the spinal cord called the dorsal horn, which is responsible for processing this information. The dorsal horn is also involved in pain and itching, but it is not clear how this process works. Previous studies have shown that neurons in the dorsal region of this region are able to respond to pain signals, but the details of this process are not well understood. Now, Peirs et al. have used a technique called optogenetics to selectively activate a group of neurons called the calretinin-expressing ( CR ) interneurons in mice. The experiments show that these neurons form an interconnected network that can initiate and sustain enhanced excitatory signals, and can directly relay signals to other neurons. When these neurons were activated, the mice responded to pain stimuli by licking, biting, lifting and shaking their paws. This behavior was enhanced when the mice were exposed to a chemical called halorhodopsin, which increases the sensitivity of the neurons to pain. This suggests that the CR neurons are important for the generation and amplification of pain signals. The next challenge is to understand how these neurons work together to amplify pain signals and how this helps the animals to tolerate pain. If these findings are confirmed in humans, they could help to develop new treatments for pain and itch disorders.
Cranial bones are made up of many different types of cells, and the skull is one of the most important structures in the skeleton. The skull is made of a network of bones and cartilage, which are connected together by sutures that are made of cartilage and bone. The bones are formed by a process called osteogenesis, in which cells called osteoprogenitor cells divide to make new bone cells. The osteoprogensitor cells then divide to form new bone, which in turn helps the cartilage to form. The suture is made from cells called mesenchymal stem cells, which have been identified as the main source of stem cells in the skull. The cells that make up the suture must be able to communicate with each other and communicate with other cells to make sure that the sutured bones are correctly formed. A protein called RAB23 is involved in many processes in the cell, including the formation of the cartilaginous tissue that forms the skeleton, and in the formation and maintenance of the suts. However, it is not clear how RAB 23 controls the formation or maintenance of suturing. To investigate this, Rice et al. genetically engineered mice that lacked the gene that encodes RAB-23, and found that these mice had multiple craniosynostoses, a condition in which the bones of one or more of their skull bones fuse together prematurely. Rice and Itoh then found that the mice had abnormal levels of a protein called Fgf10, which is a member of a family of proteins called the FGFFGF signaling pathway. This protein is known to be involved in the development of the skeleton and is also involved in regulating the activity of other proteins involved in cartilage formation. Rice etal. also, the mice that lack RAB had higher levels of an enzyme called pERK1/2, which regulates the activity and activity of a number of genes involved in osteogenesis. These findings suggest that RAB plays an important role in controlling the formation, maintenance and function of the bones. The next step following on from this work will be to find out how the mouse model of Carpenter syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that affects the skull and heart, is able to mimic the symptoms of the disease.
Plants, animals and other animals use a protein called Polycomb to regulate the activity of genes. This protein is found on the surface of DNA, which encodes the instructions needed to make proteins. Polycomb is also found in the DNA of plants and animals, where it is known as PRC2. It is known to be involved in the regulation of many genes, including those that are involved in reproduction and development. The Polycomb protein is also involved in controlling the activity and activity of many other genes, but it is not clear whether it can also control the expression of individual genes. The expression of a gene can be controlled by the presence or absence of a group of proteins called diffusible factors, which are found in a region of the DNA called the nucleus of the cell called the histone histone. These factors can be either active or inactive, and they can also be active and inactive. However, it is unclear whether these factors can also influence the expression or activity of a single gene. To address this question, Csorba et al. used a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana to study the ability of the plant to store memories of past events in the form of histone modifications. The experiments show that the Polycomb proteins are able to repress a gene called FLOWERING LOCUS C, which is involved in flowering plants, while the other gene called FLC-Venus is active. This ‘mixed’ expression state is inherited by the plant, and is maintained throughout the plant’s life cycle. This mixed state is maintained even when the plant is growing in the cold, and it is maintained in the same plant throughout its life cycle, and even after the plant has been exposed to cold for a long time. This suggests that the memory of FLC expression is not stored in the presence of diffusable factors, but instead in the local environment of the gene. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether this mixed state can be maintained in other organisms, such as animals and plants, and whether it could be used as a memory to control gene expression.
Proteins are the building blocks of all living cells, and the cell's internal machinery that makes them is called the endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasms contain a compartment called the Hsp70 family of chaperones, which are responsible for folding and assembling the proteins that are needed to make the cell’s internal machinery. The Hsp 70 family is made up of many different chaperone proteins, but it is not clear how they work together to make proteins. One way that the Hsc70 family chaperons are able to work together is by attaching a chemical group called adenosine triphosphate ( or ATP for short ) to one of their chaperon proteins, called BiP. This allows BiP to bind to other proteins and bind to them in a way that prevents them from binding to each other. However, it was not known how BiP is able to attach to other molecules. To investigate this further, Aprile et al. used a technique called SDS-PAGE to study BiP in living cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that BiP can bind to a variety of different molecules, and that it can form oligomers, or complexes, with other proteins. The oligomers are formed when BiP binds to a specific type of protein, and are then removed from the active form of BiP, which is then used as a storage form. This process takes place in a process called oligomerization, and it is triggered by the release of calcium ions from the cell, which causes the cell to release calcium ions into the cell. This causes BiP oligomers to form. The results presented by Apriole et al suggest that oligomers may be a way of balancing the demands of the cell on the amount of unfolded proteins in the cell and the need for chaperoning. The next challenge is to find out whether oligomers can be used to regulate the activity of Hsp-70 proteins in other cell compartments.
Viruses are a group of viruses that infect plants and animals. These viruses are able to move around the plant and animal kingdom, and they can cause severe disease in plants. The most common type of plant virus is called the Pepino mosaic virus, which infects tomato plants and causes severe economic losses worldwide. The virus is transmitted by mechanical contact with the plant’s leaves, and it is found in the leaves of many different plants, including tomato plants. These plants are also infected by other plant viruses, including the Potexvirus, which is a family of plant viruses. The P. mosaic virus infects plants by attaching to their leaves and then spreading to other plants. It is thought that the virus contains several hundred copies of a protein called a coat protein, which protects the plant from damage. The coat protein is made up of a helix that is arranged in a helical pattern, and the shape of the helix allows the virus to move between the plant cells. However, it is not clear how the coat protein works. To address this question, DiMaio et al. have now used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of the P. mosaic virus. The experiments show that the coat proteins are arranged in the same way as those of other plant-virus families, and that are found in many plant viruses that are transmitted by arthropods. This suggests that the two groups of viruses may have evolved from a common ancestor. The results also suggest that the genetic material that makes up the P. mosaic viruses is likely to have been transferred from one group to the other. The next to P. mosaic virus is the same as the coat-protein from the Phlebovirus, a group that infects animals. The similarities between the two types of virus suggest that they may be related to each other. Further work is now needed to understand how P.mosaic viruses and other plant virus families are transmitted to plants, and to find out whether they are also found in animals.
Antibodies are proteins that bind to proteins on the surface of a cell to help the immune system recognize and destroy invading microbes. Antibodies can bind to many different types of proteins, and the location of the antibody on the cell surface can affect the outcome of the interaction. Antigens are made up of molecules called amino acids, which bind to specific sites on the target protein. Antigen-binding sites are important for a wide range of processes in cells, including cell adhesion, cell migration, and phagocytosis, and immune responses to infection. The location of antibody binding sites on a cell’s surface is important for many of these processes, but it is difficult to determine exactly where these sites are on a bacterial cell surface. This is because bacteria are small, and their surface proteins are often different from each other. This makes it difficult to identify where antibodies bind to a cell surface protein. To address this problem, Hauri et al. have developed a new method for measuring where antibodies are bound to a bacterial surface protein using a technique called structured illumination microscopy. The method is based on averaging the distance between the antibody and the surface protein, which is determined by measuring the average distance between a bound antibody and a reference surface. The average distance from the antibody to the target surface is then averaged over time. This means that the distance from a binding site to the reference surface is determined from the average distances between the antibodies and the reference proteins. The new method was tested on a variety of bacteria, and it was found to be highly accurate for measuring the position of antibodies on bacterial surface proteins, even on cells with different shapes and sizes. This suggests that the method may be useful for the development of new therapeutic antibodies and vaccines against bacterial infections.
The skin is one of the most complex of all the animal body parts. It is made up of many different types of cells, each with its own unique pattern of cells and tissues. The skin has a complex network of blood vessels that can respond to changes in oxygen availability. This is particularly important for animals that live in water, such as mice and humans, where oxygen is scarce. The blood vessels in the skin have a range of roles, including supplying oxygen to the body and controlling the flow of oxygen into and out of the body. The response of the skin to oxygen is controlled by a number of proteins called transcription factors, which are found in the cells that make up the skin. One of these proteins, called HIF-1α, is responsible for regulating the production of a chemical called nitric oxide, which is a key component of the oxygen-sensing system in the blood vessels. The levels of this chemical are also known to vary between different animals, but it is not clear how this affects the cardiovascular system. To investigate this, Macías et al. studied mice that had been genetically engineered to lack HIF proteins in their skin. The experiments show that mice that lacked HIF genes in their epidermis showed an initial increase in heart rate and blood pressure, which lasted for about 10 minutes, followed by an immediate drop in heart rates and blood pressures that lasted for as long as 24 hours. This was followed by a gradual return to normal levels of blood pressure and heart rate. The mice also showed an increase in skin temperature and a decrease in physical activity, which suggests that the skin has an important role in the response to hypoxia. These findings suggest that the response of skin cells to oxygen deprivation is a complex process that involves a number different tissues and organs. The next challenge will be to understand how this response affects the heart and other organs in the body, and how it relates to the overall health of the animal.
Neurons communicate with each other by releasing chemical messengers called neurotransmitters into the cell body. These molecules then travel along the cell’s membrane to form connections with other neurons in the same area. The connections between neurons are known as circuits, and the precise patterns of connections among the different types of neurons that make up these circuits are critical for understanding how the brain works. However, it is difficult to map the connections between individual neurons because the activity of the neurotransmitter channels that open and close to the cell membrane is not always the same. Optogenetics is a technique that uses light to activate specific proteins in a cell to produce electrical signals. This allows researchers to control the activity and activity of individual neurons in slices of the brain. Optogens are proteins that can be activated by light and can also be removed from the membrane of the cell. However it is not easy to use optogenetics to selectively activate single neurons in a single slice of brain tissue. This is partly because the channels that allow the light to pass through the membrane do not always open at the same time as the cell itself. This means that it can be difficult to tell whether a neuron is active or not. To overcome this problem, Andrasfalvy et al. have now developed a new technique that allows optogenetic stimulation of single neurons to be used in slices from the brain of mice. The technique uses a technique called two-photon microscopy to focus a laser beams on a single neurons. The laser beam is then used to activate a specific channels in the membrane that allow light to travel through the cell and trigger a series of electrical signals called action potentials. This technique is particularly useful for mapping the connections among neurons. By using this technique, Andrafalvy and Tank were able to identify connections between single neurons that were not activated by the light-induced channels. The next step is to use this technique to map connections between the different kinds of neurons. This could help to understand how the nervous system works and how it might be modified by experience and perturbed in animal models of neurologic or psychiatric disease.
Genes are the building blocks of the DNA that make up a cell’s genetic information. They contain the instructions needed to make proteins and other molecules that are essential for life on Earth. The DNA is made up of two strands of DNA, which are linked together to form a structure called the nucleus. The first strand of DNA is the genetic code, which is made of two identical strands of RNA, and the second strand is the DNA of the cell. The two strands are linked by proteins called transcription factors, which bind to each other to form complexes. The transcription factors are found on the DNA in the nucleus of living cells, where they help to regulate the activity of the genes in the cell and are also involved in the formation of the nucleus itself. However, it is not clear how the transcription factors interact with each other and how they work together to control gene activity. Chen et al. have now used a technique called single-molecule microscopy to study how two transcription factors called Sox2 and Oct4 interact with DNA in living cells. The experiments show that Sox2 binds to the DNA first, followed by Oct4, and that the two proteins work together in a way that is opposite to what was previously thought to happen. This suggests that the binding of Sox2 to DNA depends on how much energy is being used to make the proteins. The results of the experiments suggest that the transcription factor binding to DNA is not the same as the binding to the gene itself. Instead, the binding is more likely to occur when Sox2 interacts with Oct4 and less often with Sox2. The next step following on from this work is to understand how Sox2, Oct4 work together. This could help us to understand the role of transcription factors in regulating gene activity in the early life.
The immune system is responsible for detecting and responding to infection with bacteria and viruses. However, this process is not without its cost. The immune system must be able to detect and respond to potentially harmful bacteria, but it is not clear how the immune system detects and responds to harmful bacteria before infection. In 2014, researchers showed that a bacterium called lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) is a key component of the bacterial wall of the gut of fruit flies. This bacterium is known to be harmful to the flies, and so it is possible that LPS may be used as a warning to avoid eating food contaminated with LPS. To test this idea, Harzer et al. studied fruit flies that had been genetically engineered to produce a protein called dTRPA1, which is a receptor for a chemical called TRPA1. The experiments showed that flies that lacked dTRPA1 were less likely to eat LPS-contaminated food than flies that produced dTrpA1. This suggests that the flies use a gustatory mechanism to detect LPS and avoid eating it. Further experiments revealed that the cells that produce dTRpa1 are necessary and sufficient for the flies to avoid LPS when they are feeding and laying their eggs. The flies also responded to LPS in a similar way to human cells that contain a protein that is found on the surface of nerve cells. These findings suggest that flies use the same mechanism of detecting LPSS to avoid food contaminated by LPS as humans do. Future work will be needed to understand how the flies detect and react to harmful LPSAs and other bacteria.
The immune system must be able to recognize and respond to a wide range of pathogens and antigens in order to mount an effective immune response. To do so, immune cells called T cells need to mature into mature T cells, which are able to detect and recognize the molecules that are present in the invading pathogen. T cells are found in the thymus, the organ that contains the immune system’s main organ, the bone marrow, and are responsible for protecting the body from infection. The development of T cells is a complex process that involves a number of different stages of selection and maturation, including a process called maturation in which the T cell becomes a mature T cell. However, it is not clear how these stages of maturation are regulated. Now, Silva et al. have identified a protein called Zfp335 as a key regulator of the maturation of T cell development. Mutant mice that lack a mutation in the gene that encodes a protein known as NIF-1—which encodes the zinc finger protein—have fewer T cells in their blood than normal mice. The mutant mice also have fewer T cell cells in the spleen, the part of the body that contains most of the immune cells. The experiments show that the mutant mice have a defective maturation process that begins in the bone-maintaining thymous cells and continues into the thrombosis, where they are able only to survive and multiply. Silva etal. also found that the mutation in Zfp-335 causes a number and activity of a number ( or ‘target’ ) of genes to be reduced in the mutant T cells. These genes are involved in the production of proteins that are needed for the production and maintenance of proteins. Silva and Silva also found a new region of DNA that is bound to Zfp33, a protein that is known to regulate the activity of many genes, including those that are required for T cell maturation. These findings suggest that Zfp35 is a key player in regulating the development of a large number of genes in the immune cell. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how Zfp34 regulates the expression of these genes and how this process is regulated. This could help to develop new treatments for autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, where T cells can be damaged or damaged by infection.
Bacteria and archaea are bacteria that live in the oceans and oceans, and they are often used as models to study how the human body works. They are also used to study the evolution of many other organisms, such as plants and animals, and to understand how they work together. In bacteria, genes are encoded by messenger ribonucleic acids ( or mRNAs for short ), which contain the instructions needed to make proteins and other molecules of DNA. The mRNIs are made up of a sequence of building blocks called nucleotides, which are then translated into messenger RNAs ( or mRNA ). These mRNA molecules are then used as templates to build proteins, and the proteins themselves are made from a mixture of other molecules called non-coding RNAs. The amount of mRNA molecules in a cell depends on the number of proteins it makes. However, it is not known how much protein is made of each mRNA molecule, or how much of each protein is produced. This is partly due to the fact that the abundance of mRNA is not always correlated with the amount of proteins. This means that it is difficult to predict how much a protein will be made of a given mRNA molecule. However it is also possible to predict the amount and amount of a protein from the abundance and abundance of a particular mRNA molecule by looking at how many of these molecules are present in a given cell. This would allow researchers to predict which genes are active and which are not active. To address this question, Tuller et al. have now used a technique called mass spectrometry to measure the interactions between mRNA molecules and non-mRNA molecules in bacteria and archaeas. The experiments show that, for most bacteria, non-RNA molecules are less likely to interact with each other than mRNA molecules. This suggests that there is a strong preference for avoiding interactions between non-ncRNAs and mRNA molecules, and that these interactions are more important for the production of proteins than mRNA structure or usage of the codons that make up the mRNA molecules themselves. The results of the experiments suggest that this preference for avoidance of interactions is a common feature of bacteria and other organisms. This may help to explain why some bacteria are able to produce more than others, and why other bacteria are unable to. The next step will be to find out whether this preference is also present in archaea, and if so, whether it also exists in other organisms such as humans.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects the muscles of the body. The disease is caused by the loss of motor neurons, the cells that control the movement of muscles. The loss of these motor neurons is a key feature of the disease, but it is not clear whether this is the first sign of a disease or just the first manifestation of a slowly degenerating motor neuron. Previous studies have shown that a subset of motor neuron cells, known as motor units, rapidly lose their connections with the muscle fibers that they innervate. However, it was unclear whether this loss of connections is a consequence of a sudden loss of the motor neuron or a gradual process that takes place over time. Now, Tremblay et al. have used a technique called microscopy to follow motor neurons and their connections in mice with ALS. The experiments show that motor neurons lose connections with muscle fibers as they age. This is a process called denervation, and it is accompanied by the formation of new connections between motor neurons. The results suggest that the loss and growth of new motor neuron connections is not the first symptom of ALS. Instead, it is a slow and dynamic process that occurs over time, and that the process is driven by the local environment of the muscle. The next challenge is to find out whether this process is also seen in other diseases, such as Parkinson’s disease, where the disease progresses in a similar way.
Tamoxifen is a hormone that is used to treat breast cancer and other cancers that respond to the hormone estrogen. It works by binding to a receptor on the surface of the breast cancer cells, which allows it to bind to and bind to the estrogen receptors on the cell surface. Treating patients with tamoxifene can reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence by up to 40%, but it can also cause side effects that can be harmful. For example, patients may experience hot flashes, fatigue, and changes in bone density. However, it is not clear which cells and tissues in the brain are responsible for these side effects. To investigate this, Herber et al. studied mice that had been treated with tamoxic drugs for a long time. The experiments show that tamoxic treatments alter the activity of many different types of cells in the mouse brain, including neurons and ependymal cells. These cells are involved in regulating the body’s temperature and bone density, and are also involved in controlling movement. The results also show that a gene called estrogen receptor alpha ( or ERα for short ) is responsible for the effects of tamoxic treatment on the hypothalamus, a region of the brain that is involved in the control of body temperature and body activity. The findings of Herber and Saito suggest that the hormone ERα may be involved in many of the side effects of the treatment. The next step will be to find ways to develop new or improved treatments that are able to overcome these side-effects. This could improve the quality of life of patients and improve their chances of survival.
Listeria monocytogenes is a bacterium that can cause infections in humans and other animals, including humans and mice. It is able to evade the immune system of the body and can even cross the blood–brain barrier, which can lead to meningitis and septicemia. The bacterium can also evade the body's own immune system by hijacking its own genes to make proteins that can bind to and bind to other proteins. These proteins are called interferons, which are produced by immune cells called macrophages and other cells called non-phagocytic cells. The immune system responds to an infection by producing interferon, a protein that is produced by the immune cells. However, it is not clear how this process works. One of the proteins that is activated by interferones is called ISG15. This protein is known to be involved in the innate immune system's response to viruses, but its role during bacterial infection is not well understood. Now, Bierne et al. have shown that ISG 15 is also activated by Listeria. The experiments show that when mice are infected with Listerium, ISG-15 is produced in the cells that are not phagocytically active, which suggests that this protein is a part of the immune response to the bacteria. However when the mice are exposed to Listerial bacteria, the ISG gene is switched on, and the cells produce more of the protein than normal cells. This is due to the presence of ISGylated proteins, which help the cells to detect the bacteria and detect signals from them. This increases the production of proteins that are known to protect the cells from infection. The results of the experiments suggest that the immune responses of mice that lack ISGlylated proteins may explain why these mice are less susceptible to infection with Listers. The next step following on from this work is to find out whether ISGlysin O, another ISG that is also produced by mice, is also able to protect them from infection with other bacteria.
Structural biology is the study of how cells and other biological molecules work together to form tissues and organs. It relies on a technique called single-molecule Förster resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ), which uses a technique known as fluorescence microscopy to study the structure and dynamics of individual molecules. This technique is a powerful toolbox for studying the interactions between biomolecules and how they interact. However, it is not a direct imaging modality and data analysis of smFRE data relies on multiple layers of preprocessing, including raw image analysis, trace selection, and analysis of the selected data. This process can be time-consuming and error-prone. To overcome this problem, Berg et al. developed a new software package called DeepFRET, which can be used to quickly and accurately analyze smFARE data. The software is based on a deep learning algorithm, which learns to recognize features of the data from the raw images. The algorithm then learns to classify the data into six categories based on the quality of the images. This is achieved by using a threshold that is set at a single point in time. The DeepFRE software is available online at https://deeplearning.org/deepfRET/ and can be accessed by users with limited programming skills. The program can also be used in combination with other popular tools to analyze large datasets of smFE data, such as TIRFm, which is used to study how proteins interact with each other. The tool can be easily used by experts and users without the need for human intervention, and it can be applied to a wide range of experiments. The new software can be freely available online. It is expected to be useful to researchers working in a wide variety of laboratories, including those that study structural biology. It will also be useful for researchers working with smFURE data, as well-known tools are already available for analysis. The next step will be to make it easier for users to use the software to analyze smFEAR-based data, which could help to improve the quality and reliability of smRE data.
Genes encode the instructions needed to make proteins, and other molecules in the cell to carry out the activities of the cell’s biological processes. The genes that make up a gene are transcribed to make molecules called messenger RNA ( or mRNA ), which are then packaged into a structure called a chromatin. These RNA molecules are then used as templates to make the proteins that are needed to carry the instructions for the gene. In mammals, a protein called PRC1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes in cells, and it is essential for the development of the embryo and for the body to develop correctly. PRC2 is a protein that is found in mammals and flies, but it is not known how it is recruited to the chromatin and how it works. Previous studies have shown that a gene called sex comb on midleg ( SCM ) is able to bind to PRC-1, but the details of how it does so are not well understood. Now, Gao et al. show that a protein known as SCML2A, which is a homolog of SCM, is also found in fruit flies and mammals, also binds to the gene that codes for sex comb. The experiments show that SCM and SCML-2A bind to each other via a region of the protein called the RNA binding region, which contains a region called the RBR. This region is thought to be involved in binding to RNA molecules and in binding with PRC. Gao and Gao-2a found that SCMLM2A binds to RNA via the RNA-binding region, and that this binding is required for the protein to be able to recruit PRC to the DNA-containing regions of the gene, which in turn off the gene at the right before the DNA is transcribed. The next challenge is to understand how SCML1 and SCM2a interact with each other and how they work together to regulate the expression and activity of the genes.
Bacteria use a protein called SecM to regulate the activity of the cell’s secretory machinery. SecM is a protein that is produced by a group of proteins called ribosomes, which are found on the surface of the bacterial cell. The SecM protein is made by a region of the ribosome called the ‘secretory tunnel’, which is located at the end of the protein. The tunnel is made of a series of amino acids that are linked together to form a chain called a ‘ribosome’. The ribosomal chain is made up of two copies of each of the building blocks of a protein, and each ribosomer is made from a different set of building blocks called ribonucleic acids ( or tRNAs ). When a ribosoma is active, it is able to make the correct amount of SecM, and this allows the cell to produce the right amount of the SecM. However, if the ribo-membrane is not working properly, SecM can stop the cell from making SecM and cause the ribonuclear acid ( or mRNA ) to stop being made. This is known as stalling. Previous studies have shown that SecM-induced stalling is a dynamic process, and that it is not strictly a single site event. The stalling process is thought to involve the ribanucleic acid ( RNA ) molecules interacting with the riboseconds ( the building block that makes up the protein ) that are bound to SecM proteins. Now, Bischoff et al. have used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of Secm-stalled ribosomates from the bacterium Escherichia coli. The experiments show that the stalling occurs in two different ways. The first is that the riba is inactivated at a specific position in SecM that prevents it from forming a bond with the tRNA molecules. The second is that a small part of the peptide that encodes SecM binds to the ribase center, which prevents the peptidyl-transferase center from binding to the mRNA molecules. This causes the ribasome to stop making the peptides. The next step following on from this work is to understand how SecM stalling affects the structure and activity of SecA, which plays an important role in regulating the secretion of secretory proteins.
A person’s eyes are made up of two layers of cells called photoreceptors, each of which is made of light-sensitive cells called cones. The photoreceptor cells in the center of the eye – the fovea – are responsible for detecting light and transmitting it to the brain. As the eye grows, the number of cones in a person's eye increases. This is thought to result in the photorecereceptors being more evenly distributed in the eye. However, it is not clear how this affects the number and spacing of cones. One possibility is that the photoresceptors in the fovesa are stretched as the eye lengthens. If this is the case, the photorceptors would be more evenly spaced between cones, which would make it easier for the eye to sample the visual field. However this would not be the case. To test this idea, Vojniković et al. used a new type of ophthalmoscope to image cones in living eyes of 16 volunteers. The technique uses a technique called adaptive optics, which uses a scanning laser to scan the retina. The images of the fivesome were then recorded using a custom software program. The results showed that the number ( or ‘density’ ) of cones at the foves in the eyes of the volunteers varied with eye length. The longer the eye, the more cones were seen in the longer the eyes, but not in proportion to the eye length, and the fewer cones fell within a fixed area of the image. This suggests that the longer eyes have a higher density of cones than the shorter eyes. This could explain why some people with a longer eye have better vision than others. The next step is to find out whether this difference is caused by the photors being stretched more or less than normal.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a bacterium that can cause pneumonia, otitis media and meningitis in children. It is the most common cause of pneumonia in infants, especially in low-income settings. To cause a disease, the bacterium must first infect the nose and throat, and then colonise the nasopharynx, the mouth and throat cavity that is the main source of food and oxygen in the body. The bacterium lives in the throat and is able to colonize the airways of the nose, but it is not clear how long it takes for the bacteria to colonise and colonise. Previous studies have shown that the bacteria that colonise a person's nose and mouth have different numbers of copies of the same genes. This means that the number of times the bacteria colonize a person’s nose or mouth is different between different strains of the bacteria. This is known as the ‘heritability’ of the disease. However, it was not known how many of the genes that affect the duration of the infection were also associated with the bacteria's ability to infect a person. To address this question, Earle et al. used a technique called swabbing to collect samples from the nose of infants. This revealed that the length of time the bacteria spent in the nose varied between different children. This was partly due to differences in the genetic material of the bacteria, but also because of differences in other factors such as age and previous infections. The results also showed that the genetic information of a bacteria was responsible for most of the variation in the duration. This included differences in how often the bacteria were able to infect the host, and whether the bacteria had the ability to resist the effects of antibiotics. The findings suggest that the bacterial genome is responsible for the variability in duration of infection. The next step will be to find out how the bacteria are able to adapt to their environment and how this affects their ability to survive. This will help scientists to develop new vaccines that can prevent the spread of this disease.
The heart pumps blood around the body to supply oxygen and nutrients to the body’s cells. The heart pumps at a rate that can be up to 150 beats per minute, and this activity is controlled by a protein called KCNQ1, which is found in the membrane that surrounds the heart. The KCNE1 protein is found on the surface of the heart and other organs, and it is thought to be involved in regulating the heart‘s electrical activity. KCNE proteins are made up of two subunits, called β-subunits, which are found in different parts of the cell. The β subunits are thought to interact with each other to form a complex that is able to open and close the channel. However, it is not clear how many of the β subunit subunits can associate with the KCNE protein to form the complex. To investigate this question, Werry et al. used a technique called single channel imaging to record the activity of KCNE and its subunits in mammalian cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that the interactions between the two subtypes of KCN-Q1 are variable, and that up to four β-units can be present in the complex at the same time. This allows the complex to be more flexible and allows it to open at different times and locations in the cell membrane. The results also suggest that KCNE can interact with KCN in a way that prevents it from opening the channel at the wrong time. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how KCN and KCNE interact with one another and how they work together to control the opening and closing of the channel complex. This could help to develop new drugs that can block the activity in the heart to treat heart disease.
Zebrafish are a powerful model organism for studying the regeneration of tissues and organs. The zebrafish can regenerate complex structures such as the heart, brain, retina, and other organs, including the fin, which is the largest of all the fish’s body parts. Zebrafish also have a high regenerative capacity, and so it is possible to study the mechanisms that allow the fin to regenerate. However, it is not clear how the cells that regenerate the fin are able to do so. Previous studies have shown that cells called myeloid cells, which are found in the lining of the body, play a crucial role in the regeneration process. These cells help to protect the body from infection and injury by producing a protein called interleukin 1 beta ( or Il1b for short ), which helps to trigger inflammation. The inflammatory response is triggered by the release of a molecule called macrophages, which help to remove debris and debris from the injured tissue. The macrophage-derived factor then triggers the expression of regeneration-related genes. However it was not known how the inflammatory response triggers the production of Il1a beta. Now, Hasegawa et al. – including some of the researchers involved in the earlier studies – have used zebra fish to investigate the role of the inflammatory process in fin tissue regeneration. The experiments show that the inflammatory responses of the regenerative cells are triggered by a gene called il1b, and that the cells in the tissue that regenerate are more likely to die if they do not produce enough of the protein. This is because the inflammatory proteins are produced by the cells surrounding the tissue, and the cells within the tissue. This means that the inflammation-induced apoptosis of the cells causes the cells to die. The next step is to find out what causes the inflammation to trigger the death of the regeneration-induced genes. This will help to develop new treatments for diseases that are associated with chronic inflammation, such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and autoimmune diseases.
Cells contain a compartment called the cytoplasm, which is filled with many different types of proteins and other molecules that are needed to perform their roles in the cell. This compartment is surrounded by a membrane that is constantly changing shape and size, and contains a large number of proteins. The membrane is made up of proteins, nucleic acids and other macromolecules, which are transported in and out of the cell by a process called diffusion. The diffusion of these macromolescules is known as diffusion, and it is important for the cell to be able to carry out its tasks. However, it is not clear how much diffusion occurs. The proteins in the cyoplast of the cytochromes – the compartment that contains the cell’s nucleus – are made of proteins called ribosomes, which can bind to each other and interact with each other to form a complex. The ribosome is a structure that is found inside the cell and is responsible for transporting the proteins and nucleic acid molecules to the cell nucleus. It is also the site where the proteins are made and the cell divides to make two new cells. It has been shown that the diffusion of proteins in a cell depends on the diffusion coefficient, the rate at which a protein moves in a given direction. This coefficient is the difference between the two parts of the protein that are bound to each ribosomal protein. The rate atwhich a protein can move depends on how much it is charged on its surface, and how much of it it binds to. The surface charge of a protein is also known as its net charge, and the net charge is the number of charges that are distributed over the protein surface. To find out how the diffusion coefficients of proteins change with the amount of protein present in the compartment, Mika et al. studied the diffusion rates of proteins from three different bacteria, Escherichia coli, Lactococcus lactis and Haloferax volcanii. The experiments show that positive proteins move up to 100 times slower than negative ones. This is because the positive proteins bind to the ribosomates more strongly than negative proteins. This effect is due to interactions between positive proteins and ribosomeric proteins that are found on the surface of the ribo-membrane complexes. The results of the experiments suggest that the surface properties of ribosomers may limit the composition of the proteins in this compartment. The next challenge is to find out whether the same is true for other bacteria that live in
Plantarians are flatworms that are capable of regenerating their entire body after an injury. This ability is particularly remarkable because they are able to regenerate their limbs and appendages, and they can also repair damaged organs. However, it is not clear how they do this. Previous studies have shown that planarians respond differently to injuries that remove large amounts of tissue, such as head amputation, or to injuries where only a small amounts of tissues are lost. These two types of injuries are called ‘major injuries’ and ‘simple injuries‘. The major injuries are caused by the removal of a large amount of tissue from the animal’s body, while the simple injuries are injuries that do not result in tissue being removed. The main reason for this difference is that the animals have different ways of responding to these injuries. For example, planarians that have been amputated have a different set of cells called neoblasts, which are the only cells that can produce new tissue. Neoblasts are also responsible for regenerating the lost tissue. However it is unclear how these cells respond to injuries involving large amounts or small amounts. Wenemoser et al. have now identified a gene called follistatin, which is required for regeneration in planarians. The experiments show that follistatins are required for the regeneration of planarians to occur, and that they are also needed for the cells that produce new tissues to regenerate. The follistatsins are also required for cells to respond to the loss of tissue. The results suggest that the follistatosensors that control the production of follistatisins are involved in the process of regeneration. The next step following on from this work will be to identify the genes that are switched on or off in response to injury, and to investigate how these genes work together.
Cancer is the most common form of cancer in humans and other mammals. It is caused by mutations in the genes that code for proteins called mismatch repair proteins, which are responsible for repairing DNA errors that occur when DNA is copied to make new copies of itself. These errors are often referred to as microsatellite mutations, or indels for short. In cancer cells, indels are often more common than in normal cells, and are often associated with a poor prognosis. However, it is not clear how these indels contribute to the development of cancer. One way to find out is to look at the patterns of indels in the DNA of cancer cells that have been grown in the laboratory. To do so, researchers often use a technique called whole-genome sequencing to look for mutations in DNA. This technique can be used to identify mutations that are present in a cell’s DNA, but it is difficult to see how these mutations are related to the mutations that occur in the cancer cells. Now, Wang et al. have used whole-generation sequencing to identify the mutations in cancer cells from patients with a condition called Lynch syndrome, in which the human immune system is unable to recognize and repair DNA errors. The experiments show that the mutations seen in the tumors of patients with Lynch syndrome are similar to those seen in other types of cancer, and that they are more likely to be caused by indels than in the normal cells. The mutations are also more common in the tumor cells than in healthy cells, suggesting that these tumors are more susceptible to mutations. Wang etal. also, the experiments showed that the most frequent mutations were in regions of the DNA that are involved in DNA repair. This suggests that these mutations may be important for cancer. The next step will be to find ways to treat these tumors, and to see if these new treatments can be effective.
Cells use light to communicate with each other and other cells to carry out their roles. This process involves proteins and other molecules interacting with one another to form complexes that are then activated by light. This is known as a dimerization process, and it is often used to study how cells respond to light and other stimuli. However, dimerizers are difficult to use in living cells because they need to be able to bind to and interact with specific proteins. A dimerizer called Magnets is a type of dimer that can be used to manipulate the activity of proteins in a variety of ways. Magnets are made up of two proteins that are fused together to form a dimeric structure called a heterodimer. The two proteins can be switched on or off at the same time, and the dimerized proteins can then be used together to control the activity and activity of the target proteins. The Magnets dimerizes in response to light, but it is not easy to use because it needs to be activated by a small molecule, which can be added to the dimers to activate them. Previous studies have shown that Magnets can only be used in cells grown in the laboratory at low temperatures, which makes it difficult to work in living animals. Now, Benedetti et al. have overcome these limitations by engineering a new pair of Magnets that are able to be used more efficiently in living human cells. The new Magnets were tested in a range of experiments, including experiments that used light-sensitive proteins to recruit proteins to different parts of the cell, and to reconstitute tethers that are involved in the transport of proteins. These experiments show that the Magnets could be used as dimers in a wide range of applications. The next step will be to test the new versions of the new dimers on living cells and to see if they can be applied to other cells.
Neurons are the brain cells that carry information about the world around us. They are made up of many different types of cells, each of which is made of specialized cells called neurons. Each neuron is made from a cell type called a neuron, which is called a granule cell. The neurons are made of a protein called a ribosome, which contains a small subunit called a 40S subunit and a large subunit known as the 80S subunits. The ribosomes are made from building blocks called amino acids, which are then translated into building blocks that are then used to make proteins. The rate at which the ribosomal machinery is translated is known as translation elongation, and it is thought that this process is critical for the survival of the neuron. However, it is not clear how the elongation process is regulated in the brain and how it affects how the neurons work. To investigate this question, Ishimura et al. studied the brains of mice that had been genetically engineered to have a mutation in a gene called GTPBP2, which encodes a protein kinase called GCN2. The experiments show that this kinase is activated by a protein known as ATF4, which promotes the expression of genes that are involved in the production of proteins. This activation of ATF4 is also seen in neurons that have been damaged by a variety of diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease and Alzheimer's disease. Further experiments showed that the activation of the GtpBP2 kinase prevented the neurons from dying in these mice. This suggests that the activated kinase may be involved in regulating the timing of the translation of the ribonucleic acid ( or mRNA ) into proteins. These findings suggest that the timing and timing of translation elongations may be important for regulating the survival and function of neurons. The next challenge is to find out whether the same mechanism is also activated in other types of stress conditions, including those that cause neurons to die.
Being tall is a common trait in humans, and it is associated with many health benefits, such as shorter life expectancy, shorter hospital stays and lower risk of certain cancers. It is also associated with higher education, higher incomes and better health and longevity. However, it is not clear whether height in adulthood is also important for health and health outcomes in the next generation. To find out, van Zanden et al. used data from more than 18. 6 million people born between 1896 and 1996 to estimate the average height of people born in 200 countries and territories. The largest gains in adult height over the past century have occurred in South Korean women and Iranian men, who became 20. 2 cm ( 95% credible interval 17. 5–22. 7 ) and 16. 5 cm ( 13. 3–19. 7, respectively ) taller than women born in 1896. In contrast, there was little change in height in some sub-Saharan African countries and in South Asia over the century of analysis. The tallest people over these 100 years are men born in the Netherlands in the last quarter of the 20th century whose average heights surpassed 182. 5cm, and the shortest were women who were born in Guatemala in 1896 ( 140. 3 cm ). The height differential between the tallest and shortest populations was 19-20 cm a century ago, and has remained the same for women and increased for men a century later despite substantial changes in the ranking of countries in the world-wide. The results of van Zander et al ’s study show that height in adults has changed substantially over the last century. The findings also show that the largest gains have happened in women and men in countries with reliable data on all-cause mortality. The next step will be to find out whether the same is true for men and women. This will be important because women in the United States and South Korea have the highest life expectancy and the lowest life expectancy in the entire world.
Opioid overdose is a global public health emergency. In the United States alone, more than 400, 000 people died from a drug overdose between 1999 and 2017, with more than 130 deaths per day. The most common cause of death from opioid overdose is slow and shallow breathing, also known as opioid induced respiratory depression ( or OIRD for short ). OIRD is caused by the brain cells in the brainstem, the part of the brain that controls breathing, becoming depressed by opioids. However, it is not clear which brain regions are responsible for this effect. To address this question, Pisanski et al. studied breathing in awake mice. The experiments show that opioids cause two main changes to the breathing of the mice. First, the mice breathe slower and less quickly than normal mice. Second, the animals breathe more slowly when they are in a state of OIRD. These changes are caused by a brain region called the preBötzinger Complex, which is responsible for generating the breathing rhythm. The mice were then genetically engineered to have fewer than 140 neurons in this region of their brainstem that are sensitive to opioids. This suggests that these neurons are not needed for opioid-induced analgesia. The next step following on from this work will be to identify other brain regions that are also affected by opioids, and to find out if these regions are also involved in the effects of other drugs that cause respiratory depression.
Human hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is a virus that causes hepatitis B and hepatitis D viruses, which are transmitted by the liver. HBV infects liver cells by binding to a protein called the pre-S1 domain of the L protein, which is found on the surface of hepatocytes, a type of liver cell that is found in the liver of mammals and other animals. The L protein is thought to play a key role in the entry of HBV and HDV into hepatocytes. However, it was not clear which part of the HBV protein is responsible for binding to the L proteins. Now, Schulze et al. have identified a new receptor protein called NTCP, which interacts with the L-protein of the human HBV virus. The experiments involved isolating human hepatocytes from treeshrews, a small freshwater fish that is the only species of fish that can be infected with HBV. The results showed that the NTCPs were able to bind to the pre—S1 region of the H-protein, and that they could bind to both HBV-infected cells and those that were infected with HDV. These experiments also showed that deleting NTCAs from the cells of human liver cancer cells made the cells less susceptible to the infection. These findings suggest that NTCIs are a new type of receptor for HBV that is important for the virus entry into liver cells. The next step following on from this work will be to find out how NTCOs and HDVs interact with each other proteins in the same way, and how they interact with one another. This could help scientists to develop new treatments for hepatitis B or HDV infections.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition caused by the body’s immune system becoming inflamed and unable to fight off infection. It is a major cause of death and disability worldwide. Sepsis is caused by a cascade of events that disrupt the immune system, including the release of chemicals called cytokines, which are produced by the immune cells that surround the body. These cytokines can either be pro- or anti-inflammatory, and can be produced by different types of immune cells. Sepsis can lead to long-term changes in the immune response, including changes in how the body responds to infection. For example, immune cells known as CD8 T cells are able to recognize and respond to the presence of a specific type of bacteria or virus. However, they are also able to respond to other types of infection, such as cancer, and viral infections. The immune system is able to recover from sepsis, but it is not clear how long-lasting changes to the immune responses that occur. Jensen, Davenport et al. have now used mice and human cells to investigate how the immune systems of septic patients and healthy mice recover after septic events. The experiments show that septic individuals have more memory CD8 cells than healthy individuals. These cells are more likely to be able to survive septic attacks, but they are less able to detect and respond well to other infections. This is because they are more prone to being damaged by septic insults, and are less likely to survive the infection. The results also suggest that the immune defenses of the body are more vulnerable to septic infections. These findings may help scientists to develop new ways to treat septic diseases. In the future, these findings may also be relevant to the development of new treatments for other diseases.
Genes are made up of long stretches of DNA that are copied and pasted together to form a molecule called a molecule of RNA, which is then transcribed to make a protein called a messenger RNA ( mRNA ). The mRNA is then used to make proteins, which are then translated to make the proteins that make up the DNA molecule. DNA is made of two strands of DNA, one of which is made from a single-stranded DNA molecule and the other from a double-strand DNA molecule, and the two strands are joined together by a third strand. DNA sequences called LINE-1 are the building blocks of the human genome, and they are responsible for about 17% of the DNA in the human body. The LINE sequences contain a region called the untranslated region, which encodes a protein that binds to the RNA strand of the LINE element. The RNA strand that encodes this protein is then cut to form the DNA strand that is used as a template to make RNA molecules, and this RNA strand is then translated into the protein. The DNA sequence of LINE elements is then copied to make DNA molecules that are then used as templates to make mRNA molecules. LINE elements can move around the genome to create new DNA sequences, but it is not clear how the DNA sequences are controlled. The APOBEC3 gene family of enzymes is a group of seven enzymes that can remove the cytidine nucleotides from DNA molecules. One of these enzymes, called A3A, is known to be the most effective at preventing LINE elements from moving around. However, it was not known how this enzyme can do so. Now, Chen et al. have used a technique called L1 Amplification Amplification in a cell culture system to investigate how A3a3A works. The experiments show that A3 A3As can block LINE elements that are active in human cells by removing a small sections of DNA from the DNA that is exposed to light. This process is known as ‘deamination’, and it is thought to protect the DNA from being damaged by the enzyme. Chen and Koning also found that the deamination of the exposed DNA occurs in the presence of another enzyme called RNase H, which cuts the RNA strands of the L1 RNA molecule. This suggests that the enzyme can also deaminate the DNA during the process of LINE element integration. Chen etal.'s findings suggest that the activity of the A3 proteins could be used to control the movement of LINE sequences in cells.
The human brain contains billions of neurons that communicate with each other via connections called synapses. These connections are formed by junctions between nerve cells called neurons, which are made up of specialized proteins called dendritic cells. The connections between neurons are formed via a process called synaptic plasticity, which involves changes in the activity of individual neurons. The activity of the neurons in the brain is regulated by a protein called Rem2. Rem2 is a signaling molecule that is found in many brain regions, including the brain’s cortex, which is responsible for learning, memory and addiction. However, it is not clear how Rem2 regulates the activity and activity of neurons in response to changes in sensory experience. To investigate this question, Mardinly et al. studied the role of Rem2 in the visual system of mice. The experiments show that Rem2 controls the activity levels of neurons by regulating the activity level of the cells in the cortex. Rem1-like neurons in mice that lack Rem2 are less able to respond to light than normal mice. This is because the neurons are more active than normal neurons. Rem0-like cells are also more likely to respond spontaneously to light, which suggests that Rem0 may be a key player in this process. Further experiments showed that the neurons that lack the Rem2 protein also have more spontaneous firing rates than normal cells. These findings suggest that the activity-regulated Rem2 plays a key role in the formation of visual circuits in the mouse brain. The next step will be to understand how Rem0 is able to regulate the activity in the eyes of mice and other parts of the brain. This could help to develop new treatments for conditions such as cataractsis, which can cause blindness.
How do animals sense the magnetic fields that surround them? One possibility is that they use a protein called ferritin to sense these magnetic fields. This protein is found in the membrane that surrounds the cell and is thought to act like a compass needle to guide the cell’s magnetic field. However, ferritins are also found in other types of cells, including the brain, where they are thought to be responsible for controlling the activity of the neurons that control movement and movement of blood and other molecules in the brain. A recent study by Stanley et al. has suggested that ferriting the ferrite protein could be a way to manipulate the magnetic field in cells. The experiments involved attaching ferrite to a protein channel that is found on the surface of the cell, and then heating it with a magnetic field to open the channel. The hope was that this would cause the channel to open, which would allow the ions to flow in and out of the cells. However the experiments did not show that ferrite could be used to control how the channel opened. Instead, the experiments showed that the magnetic force produced by the ferritine was too small to open a channel. This suggests that the proposed method is unlikely to be able to control the activity in cells that are not magnetically sensitive. The next step will be to find out whether ferrite can be used as a molecular compass to sense magnetic fields, and if so, to test whether it can be harnessed to make cells more sensitive to magnetic fields in the laboratory.
Stem cells are cells that can divide to make new cells, or they can divide again to make a new cell. These stem cells can also divide to form new cells or to become specialized into specialized cells, such as neurons or glial cells. Stem cells can self-renew, differentiate, or enter a state called quiescence, where they do not divide and remain dormant for a long period of time. Understanding how stem cells switch between these states is important for developing new treatments for cancer and other diseases that affect stem cells. Drosophila neural progenitor cells are a good model to study stem cells because they are easy to study because they can be grown in the laboratory, and because they have been used as a model system for studying stem cells and cancer. However, it was not clear whether stem cells enter quiescent states because they lack a protein called Prospero. Prospero is a protein that represses the activity of genes that are involved in cell division and cell division, but it is not known whether it also represses stem cell differentiation. To investigate this further, Chai et al. used fruit fly larvae to study the role of Prospero in the development of the fruit fly brain. The experiments show that Prospero was only detected in the nucleus of the developing brain cells just before they entered quiescecence, and that this protein is required for the stem cells to enter into quiesence. Chai and Choksi also found that the levels of Prosperon were low in the developing fly brain cells, and high in the cells that were already dividing. This suggests that the low levels of the Prospero protein are sufficient to drive the cells into the quiesse. The next challenge is to find out how the levels and timing of Prosperone of the genes that is repressed by Prospero are regulated. This could help to design new treatments that can be used to treat cancer and cancer-related diseases.
HIV is a virus that infects cells in the human body and causes a disease called HIV-1. The virus is enveloped by a protective shell called the capsid, which protects the virus from the immune system. The capsid is made up of a protein shell that contains a protein called CA, which is made of a hexamer and 12 pentamers. The capid is able to form a lattice that is made from a hexamer and 12 hexamers, but it is not clear how the capsids are able to assemble into this lattice. Previous studies have shown that HIV capsids have a wide variety of shapes and sizes, and it is difficult to study them because they are not stable enough to be crystallized. Now, Mamede et al. have developed a new method that can follow the uncoating process of hundreds of individual HIV capsid particles in a single experiment. The experiments show that the virus capsid can be divided into three groups based on how quickly it uncoats. The first group of capsids that are uncoated is the most stable, and the second group is unstable. The third group is closed, and is unstable enough that it cannot uncoat. The final group is open, and uncoates. The method developed by Mamedes et al allows researchers to study the un-coating of HIV capsides in a controlled manner. The results show that capsids can be classified into three categories based on the way they uncoate, and that capsid-binding proteins and other molecules can influence the process. The next step will be to find out how capsid proteins interact with each other to control uncoaring.
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in women. It is caused by mutations in the genes that make up the human body’s DNA. These mutations can lead to the development of breast cancer, but it is not clear how these mutations contribute to the formation of the tumor. Mutations in the gene that codes for a protein called JNK are often found in human breast cancer. This protein is involved in a signaling pathway called the NH2-terminal kinase ( JNK ) pathway, which is thought to promote the growth and spread of cancer cells. However, it was not clear whether JNK signaling also plays a role in breast cancer development. To investigate this question, Halaoui et al. studied breast cancer cells grown in the mammary glands of mice. The experiments show that the JNK pathway plays a key role in controlling the growth of breast tumors in mice. When JNK was absent, the cells in the breast tumors were more likely to become cancerous than normal cells. This suggests that JNK plays an important role in preventing the development and spread in breast tumors. However when JNK activity was absent in the mouse mammary gland, the tumors were much more likely than normal breast cells to develop. This indicates that JNk signaling is important for the development, growth and survival of breast cancers. The next step following on from this work is to understand how JNK works. This could help to develop new treatments for breast cancer that target JNK and other cancer-promoting mutations.
Cilia are tiny structures that are found on the surface of many different types of cells. These structures are made up of long filaments called microtubules that are connected to each other by a network of filaments known as the Golgi. The Golgi is a compartment in the cell membrane that contains the proteins and other molecules that are needed to make and maintain the cilia. Cilia are made of a protein called PAM, which is found in many different cell types, including neurons, fibroblasts and many other organisms. PAM is a type of enzyme that is required for the production of signaling molecules, such as oxytocin, vasopressin and neuropeptide Y, and it is also found in the cilium, the structure that surrounds the cell’s surface. However, it is not clear how the PAM enzyme controls the assembly of cilia in different types and cell types. Kumar et al. have now used a technique called artificial microRNA to study the role of PAM in a group of algae called Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. The experiments show that PAM plays a key role in the assembly and maintenance of cilia in C. reinhardti cells. The results suggest that the PPM enzyme is required to assemble cilia, and that the activity of the enzyme is also required for cilia to form. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how PAM works with other proteins and how it regulates cilia assembly.
Hair cells are tiny structures that are found on the surface of hair cells. They are made up of a protein called actin, which is made of long filaments of proteins called filaments. The actin filaments are made of a type of protein called Espin1, which helps to organize the actin fibers that make up the cell’s outer surface. In mammals and other animals, a group of motor proteins called myosins are found at the tips of actin-bundling proteins. Myosins can move along actin bundles to control how long the fibers grow and shrink. However, it was not clear how these motor proteins work together to control the growth and shrinkage of actins. Now, Chen et al. have used X-ray crystallography to reveal the structure of a myosin called Myo3 that binds to a protein that is known to be involved in the growth of the stereocilia, the hair-like structures that line hair cells in mammals. The experiments show that the Myosin has two regions on its tail that can bind to each other. One of these regions, known as the tail homology I motif, is responsible for binding to the Espin protein. The other region is responsible to bind to the end of the protein, which allows the protein to be attached to the tip of the cell. The structures of the Myo-3 motor and Espin-like protein revealed that the two regions are essentially identical. The Myo2 motor and the endoplasmic specialization protein ( Espin ) are also found in the same part of the same cell, and the two of the two proteins can bind together to form a complex. The structure of the complex reveals that the motor and endoplic reticulum ( the cell membrane that surrounds the hair cells ) can interact with each other to form an unexpected mechanism that allows the motor to bind and bind to Espin proteins. The findings of Chen and Mecklenburg provide a molecular explanation for why some people with mutations in the gene that encodes Myo4, which encodes a motor protein called myo3a, have hearing loss in their ears. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether other myo4 proteins can also bind to other proteins to regulate the growth, shrinkage and growth of stereocils. This will help to understand how the myo-4 motor and actin cross-linker proteins regulate the formation of the act
Cells use electrical signals to communicate with each other and to control the activity of other cells. For example, electrical signals can be detected by calcium channels that open and close at different voltages. These channels allow calcium ions to flow into and out of the cell, and they also control the contraction of heart and skeletal muscles. However, it is not clear how the calcium channels work together to achieve these different roles. To address this question, Catterall et al. used a combination of computational modeling, mutagenesis, and electrophysiology to study the structure of a calcium channel called CaV1. 1 in the heart muscle of rabbits. The structure of the calcium channel was determined by using a technique called cryo-electron microscopy, which allows researchers to look at the structure under a microscope. The calcium channel is made up of four repeats of a protein called a helix, each of which contains six transmembrane helices. The helix contains a gating charge, which is charged with two to three positively charged charges and one negatively charged charge, and the two charges interact with one or more of the other charges. When calcium ions enter the cell membrane, the calcium ion channels open, which causes the calcium ions in the channel to flow out. The opening of the channel depends on the strength of the interactions between the two of the four helices and the charge pairs that form between the outer gating charges and the countercharges of the inner gating charged charges. The results of the experiments suggest that the two helices in the same repeat form distinct voltage-sensing domains, which in turn out the opening and closing of the channels. The next step is to find out how these two distinct voltage sensing domains are able to work together in this way.
The human brain is made up of many different types of cells, each with its own unique set of connections and activity patterns. These patterns of activity can change over time as the brain matures and changes its structure and activity. This process is known as plasticity, and it is important for the brain to be able to adapt to changes in the environment and to the changes that occur in the brain after injury or illness. In the brain, a group of proteins called metalloproteinases ( or MMPs for short ) are thought to be involved in this process. MMP activity is thought to promote the formation of new connections between neurons, but it is not clear if this process also occurs in the adult brain. In 2011, researchers showed that the activity of the MMP proteins in a region of the mouse brain called the primary visual cortex ( or V1 ) is altered after a stroke. However, it was not clear whether this change in activity was caused by the stroke itself or by changes in activity of other brain regions. Now, Greifzu et al. have investigated whether MMP-inhibiting drugs could reverse the effects of the stroke. The experiments involved mice that had been deprived of vision in one eye for several days, and then had their eyes stimulated with light to see the world around them. The mice were then given a drug to block the activity in the M MPs. The results showed that MMP inhibition prevented the mice from experiencing changes in their visual system after the stroke, but did not prevent them from seeing the world in the other eye. This suggests that the brain regions are involved in the plasticity of the visual system in the mice after the brain injury. The next step following the stroke is to find out whether the same drugs could be used to treat the brain damage caused by stroke. If so, it could be possible to use these drugs to treat stroke patients.
Neurons communicate with each other at junctions called synapses. These junctions are formed between cells called neurons, which are connected by junctions between proteins called ion channels. The ion channels that open and close at synapses are known as ionotropic glutamate receptors. These receptors are found at the junctions, where they are activated by the release of a chemical called glutamate, which is released from the brain’s surface membrane. The receptors are made up of four subunits, each of which is made of four amino acids. These amino acids are arranged in a three-dimensional structure, with each subunit arranged into a ‘dimer’ of two or more. The receptor proteins are made of a protein called a protein domain, which contains the amino acids and the three-membered building blocks that make up the ion channel. The AMPA receptor is a type of ion channel, and it is found in the membrane of the brain, where it is activated by glutamate ions. AMPA receptors are also found at other types of synapses, but it is not clear how they are able to switch on and off so rapidly. The structure of the AMPA protein is known to change rapidly, but the details of how this happens are not clear. To address this question, Yelshanskaya et al. used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of AMPA proteins. The experiments show that the AMP-type receptors are arranged into three layers, each with two dimers and one dimer. The dimers move away from each other, opening up the membrane and leaving the receptor in an open state. The two dimer layers move apart, which opens up the receptor. Yelshanovic et al, therefore, found that the receptor dimers open up in the same way as the membrane. This suggests that the membrane-bound AMPA-type ion channels are likely to work in a fairly compact shape, even when the receptors are active. This is because the membrane is not very wide, and the membrane surrounding the receptors is very narrow. Yeshanovic and Yelshon et al ’s findings suggest that the extracellular structures of the receptor are compact, even in the absence of glutamate. However, when the receptor is active, the membrane becomes more compact and the receptor can open up more rapidly. This means that the receptors can be trapped in stable, opened-up conformations, especially when they are exposed to long exposures to glutamate.
Helminths are tiny parasites that live in the intestines of animals and humans, and are responsible for over 50% of all parasitic infections in humans and livestock. These parasites live inside the intestine, where they are found in the digestive tract. They are difficult to treat because they can cause severe intestinal infections, which can be life-threatening and can lead to long-term health problems. One way to study these infections is to isolate the immune cells that are present in the intestine. However, it is difficult to isolate immune cells from the intestine of mice that are infected with helminths. This is partly because the immune system has a strong immune response to these parasites, which is known as type 2 immunity. To investigate how the immune response is affected by helminth infections, Hwang et al. developed a new method to isolate cells from mice that had been infected with the parasite Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri. The method involved using a standard digestion technique to extract immune cells in the duodenum, a part of the intestine that is involved in digestion. The mice were then exposed to the parasite at different times during the course of the infection. The experiments showed that the mice were able to isolate millions of immune cells, and that these cells gave an accurate representation of the immune responses that were seen in the mice’s intestines throughout the infection with the parasites. The cells were then analyzed using a technique called flow cytometry, which allows the cells to be identified using a range of techniques. This revealed that the immune markers were present throughout the entire course of infection, including the levels of some of the most common types of immune markers. The new method developed by Hwang and Siracusa could be used to study other types of intestinal infections. It could also be used in the future to study the immune systems of other animals, such as humans.
Proteins are the building blocks of all living cells, and they are essential for many processes in the cell. Proteins are made by a group of enzymes called proteasomes, which are found in all eukaryotic organisms, including humans and other animals. The proteasome is responsible for breaking down proteins into smaller fragments called peptides, which can then be used as templates to make other proteins. Protesomes are made up of six subunits, each of which is made up from three different subunits. The 20S proteasomal enzyme is the most active form of protease, and it is also responsible for the destruction of many other proteins, including those that are involved in many processes inside the cell, such as cell division and cell growth. However, it is not clear how the protease is able to degrade specific peptides in the first place. To address this question, Liepe et al. used a combination of experimental and mathematical modelling approaches to develop a mathematical model of how the 20S enzyme works. The model predicts that the proteases are made of a series of small peptides that can be transported into the proteosome and then cleave the peptides. The results show that the transport efficiency varies between human standard- and immuno-proteasomes. This means that the rate at which the peptide is broken down depends on the amount of peptides present in the proteasom. The findings of Liepe and Fabre suggest that the 20s proteasomy is a dynamic enzyme that is able change its activity over time. The next step in the process is to determine the amount and type of peptide that is destroyed. The new model will help to understand how the enzymes work and how they are regulated. It will also help to better understand how proteins are broken down in cells and how this process is regulated.
When a neuron sends a message to another neuron, it releases a chemical messenger called histamine, which is then taken up by cells in the brain called glial cells that surround the neuron. These cells then release histamine into the synapse between the neurons, where it is taken up and processed by the cell bodies called photoreceptors. The histamine is then recycled to form another chemical called β-alanine, which can then be used as a neurotransmitter to transmit the message. In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, photoreceptor cells are responsible for transmitting the histamine signal to the glial cell bodies. However, it is not clear how the histamines are recycled. Previous studies have shown that a protein called BalaT transports histamine from the photoresceptors to the laminar glial bodies, but it was not clear whether this transporter is also required for the recycling of β-aline. Now, Xu et al. have identified a new transporter called BaliT, which they named after the Greek word for beta. This transporter is found in the retinal pigment cells, which are the cells that produce light-sensitive pigments that help to protect the eyes from the light. The experiments show that the BaliTs are found in retinal pigments, and that they are required to transmit histamine to the photorereceptors and to maintain the levels of the neurotransmitter in the photorytes. The BaliTransporters are also found in glial and pigment cells that are involved in phototaxis, the ability to move light. Xu and Wang also found that Bali-transporters were also present in the lamina glia, the cells responsible for visual processing. Xu etal.'s findings suggest that the retinitis pigmentosa is a disease-causing disease in humans and other animals. The next challenge is to find out whether the same transporter proteins are also involved in other diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
Living organisms age as they get older, but it is not clear why this happens. One theory is that aging is caused by an accumulation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ), which are molecules that can damage the cell's own proteins. However, it is unclear whether this is the case or if it is simply a consequence of aging. One way to investigate this question is to look at how the levels of oxidants in the environment change over time, and whether this changes the lifespan of an organism. The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a well-studied model organism that can be used to study aging in living organisms. In this study, Fabrizio et al. used a technique called OxICAT to monitor the oxidation status of over 400 different proteins in yeast cells grown under different conditions. The experiments show that the levels and oxidation states of these proteins change dramatically over time in aging yeast cells. This is because the amount of a molecule called NADPH, which normally provides the energy needed to make proteins, falls dramatically during the chronological lifespan of the yeast. This drop in NADPH levels occurs very early in the yeast's lifespan and sets into motion a cascade of events that eventually leads to the loss of NADPH and the collapse of the proteins that make up the yeast cell's redox machinery. Caloric restriction, a near-universal measure to extend the lifespan, increases the levels in the NADPH level and delays each stage of the cascade. Fabriziano et al’s findings suggest that the decrease in NADph levels is a key event that triggers the collapse in the redoxidation of proteins. The next step will be to find out which proteins are most likely to be involved in this process.
Proteins are made of building blocks called amino acids, which are made up of a series of building block units called bases. The building blocks of proteins are made from building blocks known as amino acids. These building blocks are then joined together to form a molecule called a protein, which is then translated into a protein by a process known as translation. The first step in this process is to make sure that all the building blocks in the protein are identical to each other. This is known as homochirality, and it is essential for a cell to survive and thrive. In bacteria and other eukaryotes, a protein called D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase ( or DTD for short ) is responsible for ensuring that only certain amino acids are added to proteins. This enzyme is found in all three domains of life, including humans, plants and animals. However, it is not clear how DTD works. Previous studies have suggested that DTD is able to selectively remove the amino acids that are incorrectly attached to the amino acid on the building block, but it was not clear why. Now, Bhatt et al. have used a technique called X-ray crystallography to reveal the three-dimensional structures of DTD from a bacterium called Plasmodium falciparum. The experiments show that the enzyme uses a ‘cross-subunit’ called a gly-cisPro dipeptide to capture the chiral centre of incoming D-tRNAs. This ensures that only binds to one of the amino groups of the D-aas. This means that the amino group of the enzyme can only bind to one amino group. The work by Bhatt and colleagues provides insights into how the enzyme works and how it can be so specific. It also shows that the cross-subunits of the enzymes are conserved across all three kingdoms of life. This suggests that the enzymes have played an important role in the early evolution of the cell’s translational apparatus, and that they may have played a similar role in other organisms too. The next step will be to find out how the enzymes work together to ensure that the correct number of amino acids on the protein is added to the protein.
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease that affects the lungs and causes a condition that causes the cells in the body to grow abnormally and die. The disease is caused by mutations in the gene that encodes a protein called CFTR, which encodes an ion channel that allows chloride ions to flow into and out of the cell. CFTR channels are found in the membrane that surrounds the cell, and are found on the surface of cells. When the channel is opened, it opens, and the chloride ions pass through the channel. However, when the channel closes, the channel opens again. This process is known as spontaneous gating, but it is not clear how it is achieved. The channel is made up of two parts: the cytosolic part of the protein, which is called the regulatory domain, and a region called the transmembrane domain, which acts as a ‘glue’ to hold the channel open. The two parts of the channel interact with each other to form a structure called a nucleotide binding domain. The nucleotide-binding domain forms a hydrogen bond between two amino acids, one of which is a threonine and the other an arginine, and these amino acids are found at the same position in both the closed and open states. The cystic fibrotic protein CFTR is a member of a family of proteins called ABC proteins, and it is also known as the ABC channel. The ABC channel can open and close in response to a chemical called ATP, which binds to a phosphate group in the cytoplasm of the membrane. The opening of the chloride channel is triggered by the addition of phosphate groups to the cystosolic end of the ABC protein. The ion channels are also activated by a drug called ivacaftor, which has been approved for use in patients with cystic disease. The drug works by increasing the activity of the potassium channel, which in turn causes the channel to open. This means that the channel can be opened and closed in the absence of ATP, but the mechanism by which this happens is not well understood. To address this question, Vergani et al. have now used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the activity and structure of the CFTR channel in a mutant form of the mutant protein. This revealed that, in the mutant form, the nucleotide side chains of two ABC proteins form a tight bond between the two nucleotide sites in the channel, just as they do in the open state.
Proteins are the building blocks of the cell membrane that surrounds the cell. The membrane is made up of many different molecules, and each of these molecules is made of a different type of lipid. The lipid molecules are made of two types of molecules, called ordered and disordered molecules. The ordered molecules are more stable than the disordered ones, and are more rigid than the ordered molecules. However, the ordered proteins are also more flexible than disordered proteins, and they can move around the membrane more easily than disorganized ones. This is because they are able to interact with each other and interact with the surrounding lipid molecules. This allows the two molecules to interact in a way that is similar to the way that the two membranes interact with one another. This phenomenon is known as the “orderphobic effect”. The orderphobic effects are thought to be important for the formation of the membrane, but it is not clear exactly how they work. To address this question, Marrink et al. used computer simulations to study how the orderphobia effect works. The simulations show that a protein with a hydrophobic layer on its surface that is larger than that of the ordered phase of the lipid membrane can interact with a disordered region in its vicinity. This interaction causes the two proteins to form a single interface that is more rigidly connected to the membrane than the one that is ordered. The interaction between the two ordered proteins and the membrane causes the membrane to become more rigid. This means that the membrane becomes more rigid and the more strongly, and the two order-bound proteins can move together. This effect is called the order-disorder interaction effect. Marrinking et al, therefore, suggest that the order–disorder interface is a powerful force driving the assembly of proteins in the membrane. The next challenge is to find out how this effect works and how it works. A better understanding of how the membrane works could help us to understand how the cell works.
Neurons in the human brain communicate with each other by releasing electrical signals called action potentials. These signals are produced by calcium ions, which are released from calcium-containing molecules called calcium ions. Scientists use a technique called two-photon laser scanning microscopy to study the activity of neurons in the brain. This technique uses a microscope to record the activity and activity of hundreds or even thousands of neurons at the same time. The activity of a neuron can be measured by measuring the amount of calcium ions in the surrounding fluid, which is known as the “fluorescence” of the calcium ions on the surface of the neuron. This information is then used to calculate how much calcium ions are present in the fluid and how many of the neurons are active. However, it is not clear how many action potential events are actually occurring in a given neuron. To address this question, de Vries et al. used a technique known as “ground truth” microscopy, which uses a technique that uses a laser to record activity in a population of neurons. The technique involves recording the activity in the mouse brain, and then measuring the calcium levels in the blood. The experiments show that most of the action potential signals are detected in the images, but a small number of events are often missed. This is because the field of view of the microscope is narrow, and the number of neurons is limited. De Vries and colleagues have developed several algorithms to improve the accuracy of these algorithms. The results show that the most of these models are accurate enough to detect most of those events, but only a small numbers of events can be detected. The next challenge is to improve these algorithms is to find out how many events occur in a neuron at a given time. This will help to understand how the brain works, and how it works.
The female genitalia of the Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla is unusual in that it has a penis-like organ that is inserted into a male’s vagina-like genital cavity for copulation. The male injects semen into the female’sclera, which then forms a hard capsule around itself. The semen is used to fertilize the female and to feed the female. However, the female can also use the semen to feed herself. This means that the female is more likely to get more nutrients from the male than from the sperm. To compete for nutrients, the direction of sexual selection is reversed in the female genital organs. The female penis of Neotrogyla bears a lot of spines, which anchor the male to the vagina. This suggests that females are more responsible for this long-term copulation than males. The sperm is stored in the spermatheca, the organ that contains the sperm storage organ, and the semen is released when the female ejaculates. Males inject the semen into a capsule that is attached to a plate-like structure on the sclerite, which is called a spermethecal plate. This plate is composed of two plates, each of which has two slots for insemination. The first plate is open and the second is closed, allowing the female to receive a second capsule while the first one is being consumed. The second plate is closed and the female cannot receive another capsule while digesting one. This allows the female penis to continue mating while the other two slots are empty. This is a morphological novelty enabling females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminal injections. The evolution of this switching valve system may have been a prerequisite for the evolution of the reversed genital organs in Neotsrogla. The next challenge is to understand how the switching valve evolved and how it works.
Synapses are the junctions between nerve cells and the cell membrane that surrounds them. These junctions allow information to pass from one neuron to the next, and the release of chemicals called neurotransmitters from the synapse to the brain. When a neuron releases a neurotransmitter, it releases a chemical called neurotransmitter into the cell’s plasma membrane, which is then released into the surrounding space. The neurotransmitter is then transported to the cell surface, where it is released from the neuron and then into the plasma membrane. The synapse is made up of two compartments called synapses and a cell membrane. Synapses are made of two layers of proteins called vesicles, each of which contains a protein called SNARE. SNARE proteins are found on the surface of vesicle-anchored proteins called syntaxin and syntaxin-25, and on the membrane membrane. When the synapses are active, the SNARE protein complex forms a complex with the membrane. This complex is then folded into four distinct stages, each with a different role. However, it is not clear how the different stages of SNARE assembly work together to assemble the complex and how SNARE mutations alter the assembly of the complex to cause their observed phenotypes. To address this question, Gao et al. used optical tweezers to study SNARE complexes in yeast cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments showed that SNARE complex mutations affect the assembly and the rate at which the complex forms. The results also showed that the three stages of assembly are regulated by a single protein called Munc18-1. This protein is involved in many processes in the cell, including the formation of the synaptosome, the membrane-bound vesicular transport system and the fusion of the vesomes with the plasma membranes. The findings of Gao and Gao suggest that the assembly process of the protein complex is regulated by Munc1, and that this protein is essential for the assembly. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the assembly steps are regulated and how they are controlled.
Cells are surrounded by a matrix of proteins called the extracellular matrix, which is made up of many different types of proteins. These proteins are found in the cytosol, the fluid that surrounds the cell, where they interact with each other and with the surrounding environment. These interactions are known as adhesion sites, and they are found on the surface of the cell membrane, which surrounds the cells. The adhesion site proteins are made up mainly of a group of building blocks called integrins, which can bind to each other or to other proteins. The integrin adhesome is a complex of over a hundred different proteins that can interact with one another to form a complex called a focal adhesion. Once the adhesions are formed, the integrin adhesomes are able to self-assemble and change their molecular content by exchanging their building blocks with the cell’s cytosolic environment. However, it is not clear how the integrin-adhesome can assemble adhesion to form such diverse structures. To address this question, Kanchanawong et al. used a technique called fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy ( FCCS ) and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching ( FRAP ) to measure the physical associations between the proteins in a cell's plasma membrane. The experiments show that the integreins are already pre-assembled already in the cell's cytosole, forming multi-protein building blocks that can form focal adherences. These building blocks are arranged in the same way as the proteins that are found at the adhesion-site sites. The results also show that focal adheres are arranged symmetrically, which means that the building blocks will enter and leave the adheres without being altered. The findings presented by Kanchanowong and Geiger have implications for understanding how the cell-matrix adhesion system works. The next step will be to understand how the adherens are assembled and how they are controlled. This will help to understand the role of the adreins in the formation of adhesion and how the system is regulated.
The human brain is made up of billions of neurons that communicate with each other via a network of connections called neurons. The activity of these connections is known as the electroencephalography ( EEG ), which is recorded by electrodes placed on the scalp and brain. The EEG is a powerful tool that can be used to monitor the activity of the brain. It can also be used as a measure of how awake the brain is, and how alert it is. For example, the EEG can be measured by measuring the electrical activity of individual neurons in the brain’s electrical activity spectrum. This spectrum of activity is called the power spectrum, and it is thought to reflect the activity levels of the neurons in a brain region called the brainstem. The brainstem EEG is also used to measure how awake we are, but it is not clear if it can distinguish between wakefulness and rapid eye movement sleep ( REM sleep ), a sleep state that is associated with vivid dreams. To investigate this question, Colombo et al. used EEG recordings to measure the brain activity of human volunteers while they were asleep. The experiments show that the EEG spectrum of wakefulness is less active than that of REM sleep. This difference is due to the fact that REM sleep is characterized by a desynchronized, ‘wake-like’ pattern of brain activity. However, it is also possible to distinguish between REM sleep and wakefulness using the EEG. This is because the EEG does not follow a straight line with a constant power spectrum. Instead, the spectrum of EEG activity in the 30- to 50-to-60-frequency range of frequencies, which are devoid of high-frequency activity, is more likely to show a ‘knee’. This means that the spectrum is more sensitive to changes in brain activity than the EEG power spectrum itself. The slope of the spectrum can be estimated from the power and frequency spectrum, which can then be compared to determine whether a person is awake or asleep. This could help to distinguish wakefulness from REM sleep, as well as other states of reduced brain activity, such as general anesthesia. The next step will be to find out whether the slope of EEG could be used in the future as a way to monitor other sleep states.
Plant cells are surrounded by a network of filaments called the cytoskeleton that supports the cell’s internal skeleton. These filaments are made of proteins called microtubules, which are made up of long filaments known as actin filaments. The actin proteins are made from a protein called cytosin, which is made of a series of short filaments that connect to each other to form a structure called a microtubule. Stromules are tubular structures that are found in many plant cells, including chloroplasts. These structures are found on the surface of chloroplast cells and are thought to help the cells to communicate with each other and to move to the nucleus, the organelle that is responsible for storing and transporting proteins and other molecules. However, it is not clear how the stromules form and how they work. Now, Caplan et al. have used a technique called time-lapse microscopy to study how stromule-like structures form and move in the leaves of a plant called Nicotiana benthamiana. The experiments show that stromulae extend along microtubular filaments, and that they are anchored to actin fibers that anchor the chloroplast cells to the nuclei, the structures that make up the cell nucleus. Caplan and Hanson also found that the length of stromular fibers in chloroplastic cells is directly related to the direction in which they move along the filaments and how long they are. This suggests that the extension of the stroma-like filaments may help to direct the movement of the chlorplasts towards the nucleus during an immune responses. The next challenge is to find out how the actin-linked stroma forms and how it is anchored to nuclei during an innate immune response.
Proteins are made up of a series of building blocks called amino acids, which are arranged in a three-dimensional structure. Each amino acid is made of a chain of amino acids that are linked together by chains of smaller building blocks known as amino acids. The amino acids in a protein are arranged into three-dimensional structures, which can be viewed in three dimensions. These structures are known to contain many different types of proteins, but it is not clear how these structures are formed. One way to answer this question is to look at how the amino acids of the proteins interact with each other. This is particularly challenging for proteins that are made of many different proteins, such as ribosomes and proteins that transport molecules in and out of the cell’s compartments called periplasmic and efflux systems. To address this question, Kamisetty et al. used a statistical method called pseudo-likelihood to predict the positions of amino acid pairs that are likely to be in contact between two proteins in a bacterial protein complex. The method was used to predict which amino acids would be found in contact across the proteins’ interfaces. The results showed that most of the residues in the proteins were in contact in the complex, and that the amino acid sequences that make contact across these interfaces were enough to predict that the two proteins would interact. This suggests that amino acid residues in contact with other proteins in the protein complex can be predicted with high accuracy. Kamisetsty etal. then used this method to make contact predictions for an additional 36 proteins that were not yet known to have a three dimensions, and to build models of the structures of these proteins. These models were particularly well constrained by the predicted contacts. The next challenge is to find out whether the predicted amino acid sequence identities of residues in these proteins are the same in all the proteins that interact with one another, or just in a small number of pairs.
When we look at a scene, our eyes and whiskers scan the scene in front of us to find out what we can see. This process is known as active sensing, and it is thought that it involves the eyes, whiskers and hands working together to extract information about the scene. However, it is not clear how the brain uses active sensing to select the best locations to scan a scene. One way to study active sensing is to use a technique called gaze-contingent display, in which the eye and whisker scan patterns of a scene are recorded. This allows researchers to measure the amount of information that is gathered from each location in the scene, and to compare the results with those of previous studies that have focused on active sensing. To do this, researchers have used a computer-generated display to show how the eyes scan the image of a picture, and how the whiskers or hands scan the same image at any given location. Now, Morvan and Maloney have used this approach to study how active sensing works in a task that is fundamentally different from visual search. The task involved categorizing whether a fur hidden behind a tree is a zebra or a cheetah. The volunteers had to categorize the image based on the pattern of the fur in the image, and then choose the location of the image that had the most information about it. Morvan et al. found that the volunteers’ eyes scanned the image in a way that was about 70% more efficient than a simple search task. This suggests that active sensing helps the volunteers select the most informative locations in the images. This is in contrast to previous studies, which have shown that the participants’ eye movements do not follow an active sensing strategy. The results of Morvanek, Maloney and Land and Tatler suggest that the brain may use active sensing in a variety of tasks, including visual search and other cognitive tasks. The next challenge will be to find ways to make it easier for people to perform this task.
Cells are surrounded by a protective membrane that surrounds the nucleus, which is the organelle that contains the genetic information needed to make proteins, DNA and other molecules. The nuclear envelope is made up of a network of pores called nuclear pore complexes. These pores allow molecules to pass through the membrane, but they also prevent large molecules from entering the nucleus. The pore complex is made of many different proteins that are folded into a scaffold-like structure called the pore scaffold, which forms a barrier between the nucleus and the rest of the cell. This barrier is thought to be made of proteins called FG nucleoporins, which bind to receptors on the surface of the nuclear envelope. However, it is not clear how these proteins are able to enter the nucleus in the first place. To investigate this question, Asensio et al. used a combination of spectroscopy and semi-automated microscopy to study the transport of large cargoes into the nucleus of human cells. The experiments show that the size of the cargo and the number of FG Nups on its surface influence how efficiently the cargo can pass through a pore. The results also show that a simple mathematical model can explain the results of the experiments. This model takes into account the energy gain from the binding of the protein to the FG Nup, and the energy cost of inserting the protein into the nuclear membrane. The next challenge is to find out how the large cargo can be transported through the nuclear pores in a way that is efficient enough to allow the cargo to pass.
The immune system protects the body from infection by recognizing and destroying foreign invaders. The immune system is made up of many different types of cells, including T helper type 1 cells, which are able to recognize and destroy invading microbes, and T follicular helper cells that help to clear out invading microbes. T helper types 1 and 2 cells can be activated by a molecule called CD28, which binds to a protein on the surface of T cells called CD80 and CD86. This activates the T cell, which in turn triggers a series of events that lead to the formation of T helper subtypes. CD28 signaling is essential for the activation of CD4+ T cells, but it is not clear whether CD28 also plays a role in maintaining the number of these cells. To investigate this question, Linterman et al. genetically engineered mice in which CD28 was removed from the T cells after they had been activated. The experiments show that CD28 is required for the formation and maintenance of both T helper and follicular T cells in response to infection. The CD28-deficient mice also had fewer T helper cells and fewer follicular cells than normal mice, and were less able to clear a bacterium called Citrobacter rodentium from their gastrointestinal tract. These findings suggest that the loss of CD28 on activated T cells can impair the immune system’s ability to respond to infection, and that this loss may contribute to the accumulation of T cell-negative CD4 cells in the body. Future studies are now needed to understand how CD28 works in more detail, and to develop new drugs that target CD28 to treat autoimmune diseases.
Bacteria are able to colonize the human stomach because they have a compact genome, which makes them easier to study. Helicobacter pylori is a bacterium that colonizes the stomach and can cause stomach ulcers and cancers. The bacterium has a helical shape that allows it to grow in the stomach, but it is not clear how it achieves this shape. Previous studies have shown that the bacterium’s cell wall is made up of a protein called peptidoglycan, which is made of a molecule called N-acetylglucosamine and a molecule known as Nacetylmuramic acid. This molecule is made in the cell and is then incorporated into the cell wall to form a mesh-like meshwork that surrounds the cell. However, it was not known how the bacteria maintain their helical cell shape. To investigate this, Yang et al. used a technique called 3D imaging to study the shape of H. pyloris cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that the cell walls of the bacteria are made of both positive and negative curvatures. The cells with the most curvature are more likely to have a cell wall that is made from a peptide called MreB, while those with the least curvature tend to have one of two types of cell wall. The results of the experiments suggest that the bacteria use two different mechanisms to maintain their shape. The first mechanism is that the cells use a protein that is found on the surface of the cell, called CcmA, to increase the production of the peptide. The second mechanism involves a protein known as CcmB, which helps the cells to grow at the wrong side of the curvature. The next step will be to find out how the two mechanisms work together to maintain the helical shapes of the cells.
Mitochondria are compartments in the cell that are responsible for generating and recycling energy. Mitochondria contain many different types of proteins, and they are constantly undergoing fusion and fission events, which are controlled by a protein called ubiquitin. Mitotic fusion is a complex process that relies on a number of proteins that are known to be involved in the process. One of these proteins is ubiquitins, which can be added to other proteins by enzymes called deubiquitylases. These enzymes remove the ubiquitylated forms of the proteins from the cell membrane, which allows them to be broken down by the proteasome, the enzyme that breaks down the proteins. The ubiquitination of a protein is known as ubiquitylation, and it is a key step in the formation of a molecule called a ‘catalyst’, which is then used as a template to build a new protein. In yeast and mammals, the ubiquitinated forms of mitofusins are essential for mitochondria to work properly, but it is not clear how they are regulated. Cdc48 is a chaperone protein that helps to remove ubiquitines from the membrane of mitochondria, but its role in this process was not clear. Now, Anton et al. have identified a new role for Cdc 48, a ubiquitylase that is found in yeast and humans. The experiments show that Cdc-48 interacts with two deubiclases, Ubp12 and Ubp2, and that these two enzymes have opposing roles in regulating mitochondrial fusion. Ubp1 is a protein that is involved in mitochondrial fusion, while Ubp3. Ubps12 removes ubiquitine chains from Fzo1, which in turn prevents the fusion process. Ubpts are enzymes that remove ubiquities from proteins, but they are also involved in many other processes, including the breakdown of proteins. This means that the two enzymes can interact with each other to regulate the activity of each other. This allows the two deUBs to work together to control mitochondrial fusion by controlling the levels of ubiquitina. The next step will be to find out how the two DUBs work together and how they work together. This could help to develop new treatments for Parkinson’s disease, a neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by mutations in the gene that encodes the mitofusesin.
The human brain is made up of many different types of cells, each with its own unique set of roles. For example, the visual and auditory regions of the brain, for example, are responsible for processing information about the world around us. However, it is not clear how the brain adapts to changes in the environment. One way to investigate this process is to look at the brains of people who have been born blind. These individuals are often referred to as ‘blind people’ because they are unable to see or hear sounds or objects. This makes it difficult to understand how the visual system of the human brain can adapt to the changes that occur in the brain of a blind person. Previous studies have shown that the brain regions that process visual information, such as the visual cortex, are more active in sighted people than in people who are born blind, but it was not clear whether the same is true for sounds. Now, van den Hurk et al. have used a technique called functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to study the brain activity of sighted and early blind people. The experiments show that the ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( or VOTC for short ) of the visual brain responds to sounds in the same way as it does to visual information. This suggests that the same brain regions in sight and blind people use the same set of brain regions to process sounds and visual information in a similar way. The results also suggest that the visual region of the eye, which is responsible for vision, is also involved in processing sounds. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether the visual regions of early blind individuals also process sounds. This could help us to better understand how our brains adapt to new experiences.
Many organisms can manipulate the behavior of their hosts to their advantage. For example, a fungus called Entomophthora muscae, which is commonly known as ‘zombie ant fungus’, can cause an infected ant to climb to a high place and attach itself in place using its mandibles before succumbing to the infection. The fungus then devours the insect’s body and consumes its fat body as an energy source. However, it is not clear how the fungus can do this. Previous studies have shown that the fungus does not invade the nervous system of its host, but instead forms complex networks around host muscles. This suggests that it is able to communicate with the host to control its behavior. The ability of the fungus to manipulate behavior has fascinated scientists for over a century, but it has been difficult to understand how it does so. Now, Quan et al. have identified a strain of the fungal pathogen that infects wild Drosophila melanogaster, a species of fruit fly that is commonly collected in the United States. This fungus causes the flies to climb up to high places, extend their proboscides, and then raise their wings, clearing a path for spores to launch from their abdomens. The flies then die within a few hours of being exposed to the fungus, and the flies’ brains are dissected to reveal the details of the process. The experiments show that the flies that are infected with the fungus die within 48 hours, and that the fly flies that have been exposed to this fungus are able to survive for several days. The fly flies also have a strong immune system, and their brains contain many of the same genes that are active in the fungus. This means that flies can detect the fungus early on in the infection, and respond to it by changing their behavior. This new system will allow scientists to study how E. musciae manipulates its host fly and will help to understand the molecular mechanisms that allow this fungus to do so.
RNA molecules are the building blocks of proteins that are essential for life. They are made by a process called translation, which involves a series of steps that are carried out by the cell’s DNA machinery. When a gene is active, the DNA is copied into a molecule called a messenger RNA ( or mRNA for short ), which is then translated into a protein. However, some of the mRNA molecules are not working properly, which can lead to problems with the production of the protein. This is known as RNA degradation, and it is essential for the cell to maintain a healthy balance between the production and degradation of RNA molecules. RNA degradation occurs in the nucleus of the cell, where it is made, and in the cytoplasm, where the RNA is degraded by a machinery called the exosome. The process is controlled by a group of proteins called the Nrd1/Nab3 complex, which are involved in the degradation of the RNA. The enzymes that degrade the RNA are known as ‘degeneration factors’, and they are found in many different types of RNA, including messenger RNAs, non-coding RNAs and non-transcriptional RNAs. The degradation factors that are found on the RNA molecules of yeast cells are called RNA surveillance factors, and are known to be involved in a range of processes, including the degradation and processing of RNA. To understand how RNA degradation factors work, it is important to understand how they interact with each other and how they work together. To do this, Schulz et al. used a technique called photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation ( PAR-CLIP ) to study the binding of 30 RNA degradation factor proteins to the RNA in yeast cells. The experiments show that the degradation factors are different from each other in that they are able to bind to different classes of RNA and to different RNA types. This suggests that the different degradation factors have different roles in different RNA classes, and that they work in different ways. The results also suggest that the nuclear surveillance machinery, including two of the known degradation factors, targets aberrant nuclear RNA molecules and processes them into RNA surveillance particles. The next step following on from this work will be to find out how the different RNA surveillance proteins interact with one another to degrade the mRNA.
Plants are able to rapidly respond to environmental cues by producing a range of chemicals that are essential for life. For example, a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana can produce a compound called camalexin, which can be used as a defense against bacteria and fungi. The plant’s ability to produce this compound depends on a number of genes that are switched on and off at the same time. These genes are controlled by proteins called transcription factors, which bind to the genes and regulate the expression of the genes. However, it is not clear how these genes are activated at the right time and how they are regulated by the proteins that make up the ‘bivalent’ chromatin that surrounds the genes in the cell. The bivalent chromatin is made up of two groups of DNA molecules called histones, which are attached to each other to form a structure called histone histone 3. The histones can be either active or inactive, and the histone modifications can either increase or decrease the activity of the gene. In 2018, researchers reported that a type of histone modification known as H3K27me3 was found on genes involved in making camalein, but it was not clear whether this modification also controls the timing of gene expression. Now, Schläpfer et al. – including some of the researchers involved in the 2018 study – have used a technique called epigenomics to investigate the role of H3H3 and H3C18ac in the production of camaleen. The experiments show that the histones of the two genes are co-localized in the same gene, and that they form a new type of chromatin called kairostat, which is named after the ancient Greek word for ‘right moment’. This new form of bivalent histone chromatin was found to be important for regulating the timing and amount of gene activity in response to a pathogen signal. The next challenge is to understand how the two histones work together to control gene activity and the timing at which genes are active.
Neurons and astrocytes are cells in the brain that are responsible for many of the roles that neurons perform in the body. They are found throughout the adult brain, including in the subventricular zone ( SVZ ) of the brain, which is home to the ventricles and the hippocampus, and is also home to many other types of neurons. The SVZ contains a population of stem cells called astroglia, which are specialized cells that can specialize into many different types of cells. These cells are found in the SVZ of the mouse brain, and they are also present in the human brain. However, it is not clear how these astroglial cells are able to differentiate into a variety of types of brain cells throughout adult life. To investigate this question, Ihrie et al. used a technique called immunohistochemistry to study the activity of a protein called EZH2 in the brains of mice and humans. This protein is known to be involved in the production of a number of genes that are involved in cell division and cell fate specification. The experiments show that EZZH-2 is required for astroglies to divide to produce neurons in the adult mouse brain. In addition, the experiments showed that the expression of EZ2 is also required for neurons to develop into astrogls. This suggests that the EZ-2 protein may be important for the development of new neurons in adult mice. The next challenge is to understand how EZh2 regulates the development and differentiation of neurons in mice. This could help to develop new treatments for brain tumors and other brain diseases.
Viruses and bacteria live together in complex communities that are often found in the ocean, where they can interact with each other to form complex networks. These communities are critical drivers of nutrient and energy conversion processes in the oceans, and are often important for the health of the marine environment. However, most viruses and bacteria are not cultured, which means that it is difficult to study the interactions between these groups of microbes and viruses. To address this problem, Anantharaman et al. used a technique called single-cell amplified genome sequencing to examine the relationships between bacteria and viruses living in a marine oxygen minimum zone, a region of the ocean where oxygen levels are low. The experiments show that the bacteria in this zone are made up of two main groups of viruses: one belonging to a group called SUP05 and another belonging to another group called Arctic96BD-19. Both groups are found in different parts of the water column, with the SUP05 group being most common in oxygen-rich waters and the Arctic96 BD-19 group in anoxic or sulfidic waters. The two groups are thought to have evolved from a common ancestor, but it is not clear how the two groups have co-evolved together. Antharaman and Suttle also found that SUP05 viruses are able to infect bacteria that live in the oxygen-poor water column of a marine fjord called the Saanich Inlet, which is located in British Columbia, Canada, and that these viruses have been present for many years. The results of the experiments suggest that the viruses may be able to reprogram the bacteria into becoming more energy-generating. The next challenge will be to understand how the viruses reprogram their host to use more energy. This knowledge could help scientists to better understand how these bacteria respond to changes in oxygen levels and to predict how they will behave in the future.
Cilia are hair-like structures that protrude from the surface of a cell and are essential for the development of the body. Cilia are made of a protein called tubulin, which is found on the outside of the cell and is attached to the cell’s surface by a network of filaments known as microtubules. The cilia are also known as flagella, and they are found in many different types of cells, including humans and zebrafish. Flagella have two major roles: one of them is to move the fluid that surrounds the cell, and the other is to sense signals from the outside world, such as the presence of other cells. The assembly of cilia is thought to involve a process called intraflagellar transport, which involves the movement of a large number of proteins along the length of the cilia. However, it is not clear how these proteins work together to assemble cilia and how they are able to do so. To address this question, Ishikawa et al. used a technique called proteomics to identify 195 proteins that had been identified as potential cilia proteins. This revealed that one of these proteins, called TTC26/DYF13, is a protein that is found in the cilium of mouse cells and is known to be important for cilia to form. However it was not clear what role this protein plays in cilia, and how it is able to transport cilia of different lengths. To investigate this further Ishikawa and Katsanis used a combination of biochemical and genetic approaches. The experiments showed that the protein is required for the assembly of full-length cilia in zebra fish embryos and in the laboratory. In addition, the protein was also found to be present in the flagelles of zebrafishes, which are used as a model organism to study cilia development. These experiments show that TTC26 is important for the formation of full cilia by transporting a subset of proteins that are involved in the movement and assembly of flageelles. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether other proteins are also involved in transporting other cilia components. If so, this could help to understand how cilia form and function.
Cancer cells can spread from one part of the body to the next by invading into the blood or lymphatic system. This process is known as metastasis, and it is thought to be driven by changes in the environment surrounding the cancer cells. For example, the lymphatic vessels that supply the blood supply to the body are lined with cells called lymphatic endothelial cells. These cells can interact with the surrounding cells in the tissue, which in turn can influence how the cancer cell grows and spreads. However, it is not clear how these interactions contribute to metastasis. To investigate this, Tatti et al. used a technique called co-culturing to study the interactions between melanoma cells and lymphatic cells in mouse tumors. The experiments show that the interaction between melanomas and lymphatics can promote the spread of melanoma to distant organs. This is because the melanomas can switch from a three-dimensional ( 3D ) growth to an invasively sprouting ( or ‘invasively’ growing ) phenotype. This change in growth behavior is triggered by the presence of a protein called MMP14, which is known to be involved in the invasion of the cells. MMP 14 is also known to interact with a protein known as β1-integrin, which helps cells to attach to each other and communicate with each other. Tatti and Tatti also found that the lymphatics of melanomas also interact with another protein called Notch3, which promotes the invasion. Together, these findings suggest that the interactions may be important for melanoma metastasis in humans. The next step will be to find out how the lymphocytes interact with melanomas to promote metastasis and to see if they can be used as a model to study melanoma in mice.
Neurons in the brain are made up of specialized structures called dendrites, which extend from the surface of the cell and connect to each other via a network of junctions called synapses. These connections are formed by a series of proteins called microRNAs, which are produced by the cell’s own genes. MicroRNAs are short pieces of RNA molecules that can be ‘silenced’ by a gene that encodes a protein. These ‘microRNAs’ can also act as ‘negative’ genetic tools to silence other genes that are not needed for the cell to work properly. However, it is difficult to use these tools to study the role of a microRNA in the developing brain. One microRNA called miR-9 is one of the most abundant in the brains of mammals and is known to be involved in the development of neurons. Although it is well known that miR9 is important for the formation of dendritic structures, it was not clear what role it plays in the later stages of neuronal development. To investigate this question, Akerblom et al. developed a new type of microRNA that is able to be silenced in a mouse model of the brain. The microRNA sponges were genetically engineered so that they could be switched on or off in response to the presence of a specific microRNA. The experiments showed that the microRNA could be used as a negative gene-silencing tool to study miR8-9 activity in the mouse brain. This revealed that the gene for miR7-9 was important for dendrite development. Further experiments revealed that this microRNA was able to regulate the activity of a gene called REST, which is involved in regulating the activity levels of other genes. The results of the experiments suggest that miRNA spongs are a useful tool for studying the role miR6-9 in the early stages of brain development. The next step will be to find out whether miR4-9 also plays a role in the formation and maintenance of the neural networks that form in the adult brain. If so, it will be important to understand how miR5-9 regulates the development and function of neurons in the human brain.
Autism spectrum disorders ( or ASD ) are a group of conditions that affect the brain and affect the way we think and behave. These disorders are characterized by difficulties with social communication and communication, which can be difficult to diagnose and treat. Early detection and early intervention may help to reduce the symptoms of ASD and improve the outcomes of individuals with the disorder. However, it is not clear how these difficulties are linked to differences in the way the brain develops in individuals with autism spectrum disorders. One way to investigate this is to use brain imaging to measure the connections between brain regions involved in visual and attentional processes. This is particularly important because these processes are thought to be important for the development of the social brain, which is the brain’s main hub for communication and social communication. To find out more about how the brain works in early autism spectrum disorder, Pierce et al. compared brain scans of toddlers with and without ASD to those of healthy toddlers. The results showed that the brain regions that are involved in social communication are connected to the same areas of the brain that are important for visual processing and attention. This suggests that early in life, the brain may be more likely to focus on social communication than other areas of brain development. This may help explain why some individuals with ASD have more severe symptoms of social communication difficulties than others. The next challenge is to find out whether this difference in early social communication is due to differences between individuals with or without ASD. This could help us to understand why some people with ASD are more severe than others, and how this difference may contribute to their symptoms.
Blood cells play a key role in the body’s immune system. They help to protect the body from infection and other harmful microbes, and they also help to repair damaged tissues. In fruit flies, for example, blood cells called hemocytes are found in the lymph glands of the larva's body. These glands contain two main types of hemocytes: plasmatocytes and crystal cells. In the lymph gland, the cells that produce the most of the blood cells in the larval body are called prohemocytes. However, in the hematopoietic organs of the larvae, which are found throughout the body, the stem cells that make up the blood cell population are released from the glands and are not released until the larvae are pupated. This means that the number of mature hemocytes in the larvae is constantly increasing. The stem cells in these organs are called hemocyte clusters, and it has been suggested that these clusters are responsible for controlling the numbers of these cells. But it is not clear how these clusters work. To address this question, Makhijani et al. used a technique called time-lapse video microscopy to study the development of fruit fly larvae. The experiments show that the clusters of cells in a larva contain two types of stem cells, called crystal cells and plasmetocytes, which can differentiate into either the two different types of blood cell. The cells in clusters are able to divide, but it was not clear whether they do so by self-renewal or by de novo cell division. The results of the experiments suggest that stem cells can differentiate from plasomethelial cells. The findings suggest that the hemocytes cluster in clusters may be responsible for this process. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how stem cells and other blood cell types are controlled in these clusters. This will help to understand the mechanisms that control the numbers and types of cells that are produced in the developing body.
Genes are made up of DNA, which is made of two copies of the same DNA sequence. When a gene is duplicated, it is called a ‘chromosome’, and each copy of the chromosome is made from a single copy of each gene. This process is known as aneuploidy, and it is often used to study diseases such as Down’s syndrome, a genetic disorder that is caused by too many copies of a gene. However, it remains unclear how cells overcome the deleterious effects of this duplication until new genes become active. One way to find out is to study yeast, which are often used in laboratory experiments to study the effects of genetic mutations. Laboratory strains of yeast that have been exposed to an increased number of chromosomes are extremely sensitive to chromosome amplification, and so it is not clear how they are able to tolerate this. Now, Yona et al. show that laboratory strains of wild yeast are also tolerant of chromosome amplification. The experiments show that the yeast cells that are most sensitive to the effects are the ones that have two, three, or four copies of each chromosome. These strains have lower than expected levels of expression of many genes that are known to be involved in the production of proteins and other proteins that are toxic to the yeast. Yona and Yona found that these yeast cells also have an active mode of gene dosage compensation, in which they increase or decrease the expression of certain genes in response to chromosome duplication. This mechanism is likely to be more common in wild yeast than in laboratory strains. The next step will be to investigate whether this mechanism also occurs in other species of yeast.
Light is a key biological stimulus for most animals, and animals use light to detect and respond to it in a variety of ways. For example, some animals use photoreceptors to detect light, while others use photopigments to detect it. The photoreceptor cells that detect light are called opsins, and they are found in all animals, but it is not clear how they are able to do this. The opsins are made up of a group of proteins called opsin-coupled receptors, which are found on the surface of the cells that produce the light-sensitive light-detecting proteins. In mammals, opsins called ciliary opsins detect light by binding to receptors called Gαi, which is found in cells that contain cilia. However, it was not clear whether ciliary photoreception evolved independently of ciliary receptors, or if it is a combination of both. Now, Vöcking et al. have identified a new type of opsin called xenopsin in a flatworm called Maritigrella crozieri, which was previously thought to have evolved independently from ciliary rods. The experiments show that xenopsins are present in the eyes of the larva of the flatworm, and that they are also found in extraocular cells in the adult. These extraocular eyes contain hundreds of cilia, which makes them similar to rods in that they have a similar shape and size to the rods. Further experiments showed that the cells in these extraocular cilia contain a protein called G αi. This suggests that the cilia in these cells are the same as those in ciliary rod cells. The next challenge is to understand how xenopsis works, and how it is able to sense light.
Neurons in the brain and spinal cord are made up of many different types of cells, each of which has a unique pattern of activity. This diversity is generated by a process called spatial patterning, in which a cell division process produces a new set of neurons and other cells called glial cells. This process is called temporal patterning. In mammals and fruit flies, neural progenitor cells in the ventral and dorsal regions of the brain are made from a single cell type called a neural stem cell, which is known as a neuroblast. Each neuroblast has a distinct identity based on its distinct molecular profile, and each neuroblast produces a unique and stereotyped family of neurons. However, it is not clear how spatial and temporal patterns are integrated to generate these distinct neuronal identities in the same neural stem cells. Drosophila is a good model to study this process because it is a fruit fly that is able to make a wide range of different types and sizes of neurons in its developing brain. To investigate this process, Nern et al. used a technique called Targeted DamID to identify the sites where a transcription factor called Hunchback binds to the DNA of two different neuroblasts in fruit fly embryos. The experiments show that Huchback binds at different sites in the two different types ( called NB5-6 and NB7-4 ) of neuroblast cells, which suggests that these two types of neuroblast have different roles in the development of the fruit fly brain. Nern and Doe also found that the Huch back binding sites are different in each type of neural cell. This suggests that Hoch is not required to specify the identity of each type. Instead, Huch is needed to specify which genes are active in each cell type. The next step will be to find out how Huch and other transcription factors work together to specify neuronal identity in fruit flies and mammals.
Cells contain many different types of proteins that are found in the membrane that surrounds the cell. Some of these proteins are called ion channels, which allow ions to pass through the cell membrane and pass through pores that allow them to move in and out of cells. The ion channels are found on the surface of many cells, including neurons, which are responsible for transmitting information from one neuron to the next. A family of ion channels called the P2X receptors is found in neurons and is involved in a wide range of diseases, including chronic pain and inflammation. These ion channels open and close in response to the flow of ions through the membrane, and are thought to be responsible for controlling the movement of ions across the membrane. However, it is not clear how these ion channels work. Previous work has suggested that the opening of the channels is controlled by a series of molecular motions that occur when the ion channels become open. However it was not clear whether these motions are the same as the ones that open the channels in the open state. To address this question, Huang et al. used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the structure of the ion channel of the rat P2x2 receptor. The experiments show that the channel opens when the inner and outer ends of the protein come closer together, likely through a hinge-bending motion. The next step following on from this work will be to see if this hinge-bending motion also occurs in other ion channels and other proteins.
Cells in the human and other animals divide to make two new cells at the end of each cell cycle. This process is called cytokinesis, and it involves a ring of proteins constricting around the cell’s nucleus to form a ring that constricts when the cell is ready to divide. Cytokinesis is essential for all animal cells to work properly, but it is not well understood how cells are able to divide in different ways. In the embryo of the worm Caenorhabditis elegans, each cell in the worm is made up of four different types of cells, each of which has a unique cell identity and each type of cell can divide in a different way. The four-cell C. elegans embryo is a powerful system to study how cells divide because it is transparent and can be easily viewed by light microscopy. Davies et al. have now used this system to investigate how cells in the embryo are regulated to divide differently. The experiments show that cells in one of the four types of worm embryo are protected from cytokinesism failure when they are kept in isolation or when they divide with another cell type called P2. This is because the two types of cell have different levels of a protein called formin CYK-1, which is required for cytokinessis. However, cells in another type, called EMS and P2, are protected by two different mechanisms. In one cell, the protein is required to form the contractile ring, while in the other cell, P2 is needed to make the ring constrict when it is in contact with the cell that is about to the left of it. This means that the two cell types are protected against cytokinesisms failure. In contrast, in the P2 cell, another protein called SrcSRC-1 is needed for the contraction of the ring. This protein is known to be involved in the formation of the cell-fate signaling pathway, which controls the fate of the cells. The findings of Davies etal. suggest that the same mechanisms control the diversity of cell types in the C. nematode worm embryo, and that these mechanisms may be important for the development of diseases such as cancer.
Bacteria are able to move around in the body of a host by using a structure called the flagellum, which is made up of filaments called flagella. These filaments are made of a protein called a sheath that is wrapped around the cell’s outer membrane. Some bacteria, including some that cause human diseases, have sheathed flagelli, but it is not clear how this sheath works. The sheath is thought to allow the bacteria to evade the immune system‘s ability to recognize the sheath. However, it was not clear whether the sheathed sheath also helps the bacteria avoid the immune response that is triggered by the sheaths. Now, Brennan et al. have used a squid to study the role of the sheathe in a symbiotic relationship between a bacterium called Vibrio fischeri and a squid called the Hawaiian bobtail squid. The experiments show that the shesheath of the squid squid is responsible for triggering the release of an immunogenic molecule called lipopolysaccharide, which helps the squid to fight off the bacteria. This is the first time that a shesheathed sheathe has been shown to trigger the immune responses of squid cells. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the sheheath works, and how it works in more detail.
Genes are made up of DNA, which is packaged into structures called chromosomes. The DNA in a cell is made of two strands of DNA that are separated by a structure called the cytoskeleton, which contains the genetic information of the cell. In plants, chromosomes are made of a protein called histone H3, which plays a central role in the cell’s DNA structure. In the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the chromosomes of the plant are arranged in a pattern known as centromere, and the centromeres are located at the ends of the chromosomes. When a plant embryo is fertilized, the two sets of chromosomes in the embryo are separated and the chromosomes that make up the plant's genome are removed. The chromosomes are then reassembled in a process known as mitosis, which involves a process called cell division. This process involves a series of events, including the removal of the genetic material from the chromosomes and the destruction of the DNA that makes up the cell's genome. Genome destruction is a common phenomenon in plants and animals, but it is not well understood how it occurs and how it can lead to genetic rearrangements. Here, Maheshwari et al. used a technique called DNA sequencing to study the process of genome elimination in Arabidaceae plants. The experiments show that the process involves the destruction and destruction of a single chromosome in the early stages of cell division, and that this process can be very destructive. The process is accompanied by a cascade of events that can result in the loss of chromosomes, which can be harmful or beneficial. For example, the process can cause the cell division process to become more complicated. However, it can also lead to the formation of new chromosomes that can be passed on to the next generation. These new chromosomes can be inherited by the plant embryo. The next step will be to understand how the process works, and how the new chromosomes are formed.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a virus that causes several human cancers, including lymphomas. EBV infects B cells in the blood, which are immune cells that help to fight off infection. EBVs can also cause B cells to grow and divide uncontrollably, leading to the development of cancer. The EBV-infected B cells are able to survive for a long time because they have a number of viral proteins that help them to survive. One of these proteins, called LMP1, is required for the B cell to survive, but it is not clear how the virus controls the growth of the B cells. To investigate this question, Leverson et al. used a technique called BH3 profiling to study the survival of human B cells after EBV infection. The experiments show that EBV cells survive in the absence of LMP 1, but that they are more likely to survive if they have other viral proteins. This suggests that the virus has evolved a new strategy to control the growth and survival of the infected cells. The next step following on from this work will be to find out how the EBV proteins affect the survival and growth of B cells, and whether this strategy could be used to treat EBV infections.
Plants are constantly exposed to changes in their environment, which can affect how they grow, develop and survive. For example, they may produce different types of molecules called specialized metabolites, which help them to defend themselves against herbivores and other plant species. However, these molecules can also have opposite effects on the plant, which may make it more sensitive to some environmental stresses. This means that the diversity of specialized metabolites can vary between plants. This is partly due to differences in the way that the genes that make these molecules are expressed in the plant’s genome. The genes that code for specialized metabolites are often duplicated in plants, which makes it difficult to distinguish between different species. This makes it hard to understand how the diversity in specialized metabolites varies between species. To address this question, Brachi et al. used a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana as a model to study the variation in the number of different specialized metabolites produced by the plant. The experiments show that a combination of geography, environmental conditions, demography and different genetic processes all combine to influence the distribution of specific specialized metabolites and their distribution. This suggests that the genetic diversity of a plant species is shaped by a blend of all these factors, and that these processes may be more complex than previously thought. The next challenge is to understand why the genetic and environmental factors that shape the diversity and distribution of specialized metabolite diversity are so different across different plants.
Tumors are the most common type of cancer, and are often difficult to treat because they grow uncontrollably and spread to other parts of the body. One way to stop the growth of tumors is to kill the cells that are responsible for the growth and spread of the tumor. This is known as apoptosis, and it is thought that apoptosis is a process that kills cancerous cells. However, it is not clear how cells are protected from the harmful effects of apoptosis and how they are able to survive in the presence of apoptotic caspases. Caspases are proteins that are found in many different types of cells and are thought to be important for cancer cells to die. However it has been suggested that caspase activity can also have the opposite effect, which is that they can promote tumor growth. Now, Diwanji et al. have shown that a gene called RasV12 can switch the activity of caspasases from a tumor-suppressor to a tumor promoter. This switch is triggered by a protein called JNK, which switches on a signaling pathway that activates the activity and activity of other proteins known as cns enzymes. The cns enzyme JNK then signals to other proteins called macrophages, which in turn signal back to the tumor cells to activate the JNK signaling pathway. Together, these signals activate the cns proteins, which then activate the activity levels of the cncases. This process is called apoptosis-induced proliferation, and is known to be a key to the formation of tumors in animals and humans. Diwanjian et al, therefore, propose that RasV 12 can switch on the ccnases to promote tumor formation. The next challenge is to understand how this switch occurs and how it works.
Social interactions are a common part of our daily lives. Most of the time, we are busy interacting with other people, but we also have our own social lives to consider. For example, we may sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like an hour. This seemingly intuitive picture has no bearing on the structure of space-time, but it nicely illustrates the now established finding that mental time deviates from physical time. It has been proposed that subjective time is a signature of the amount of energy expended in representing a stimulus. For instance, if we see a moving object, we tend to perceive it as longer in duration than if we do not. However, it is not clear whether this is due to differences in the brain regions that process information about social interactions, or whether it is simply a result of differences in one’s personality traits. To investigate this question, Manera et al. asked young adults to perform a series of tasks that asked them to judge the duration of social interactions between two actors. The experiments show that the volunteers perceived the actors’ movements as shorter in duration when they were acting communatively than when they acted noncommunicatively. This effect is independent of the basic visual features of the actors, or the non-biological properties of the motion sequences. The volunteers’ perception of the duration was also negatively correlated with their autism spectrum traits, which is a common trait in people with autism spectrum disorders. The results of the experiments suggest that oxytocin, a hormone that is produced by the brain, is involved in the perception of social interaction. This hormone is also found in the brains of people with neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether this hormone also plays a role in the processing of social information.
The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus is responsible for the most severe infectious disease pandemic in 100 years. More than 135 million people have been infected, resulting in the deaths of more than 3 million people worldwide. The virus is able to infect cells by binding to a protein called ACE2, which is found on the surface of the cell. The ACE2 protein binds to a part of the virus called the receptor binding domain ( RBD ), which binds to the ACE2 proteins on the cell surface. The RBD is a region of the Spike protein that binds to ACE2. Mutations in the RBD can make the virus more able to bind to the protein, but it is not clear how these mutations affect the ability of the protein to interact with ACE2 and whether they help the virus to evade the immune system. To investigate this, Zhou et al. used a technique called surface plasmon resonance to measure the effects of mutations in the binding site of the Rbd on the ACE protein. The experiments show that mutations in five common mutations in this region of RBD increase the affinity of the receptor-binding domain for ACE2 by 10- to 25-fold. However, mutations in two other common mutations, which increase the binding affinity by a similar amount, decrease the affinity. This suggests that mutations that enhance the ability to bind are likely to enhance the virus’ ability to infect and spread. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether other mutations in RBD that enhance or decrease the binding of ACE2 are also present in the virus. If so, this could help the viruses to infect more people.
Genes are made up of DNA and proteins, which are linked to each other to form a complex network. Genes can interact with one another to form complex networks of interactions that can influence the activity of other genes. This interaction is known as a ‘genetic interaction’, and it is important to understand how these interactions work because they can have profound effects on the health and development of cells and tissues, and may help scientists to develop new treatments for cancer. However, it has been difficult to map the genetic interactions between genes in a large-scale way. One way to do this is to look at the effects of mutations in a gene on a cell's phenotype, which is the ability of the cell to grow and divide. This can be done by comparing the phenotype of a gene to that of another gene, but it is not possible to do so from a single gene alone. Now, Laufer et al. have developed a new approach to map genetic interactions in fruit flies. The experiments involved using a technique called RNA interference to knock out 1367 genes that are involved in a range of biological processes in fruit fly cells. This revealed that the experiments revealed that a gene called Ras, which controls the cell's ability to divide, interacts with a protein complex called the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodelling complex, which helps to remodel the chromatin in the cell. The results of the experiments also showed that Ras interacts with another protein complex that is involved in cell division, and that this interaction is conserved in human cancer cells. These findings show that genetic interactions can be mapped at a large scale. The next step is to use this approach to identify the genetic relationships between genes and proteins. This could help to understand the genetic basis of disease, and could also lead to new ways to treat cancer.
Heterostyly is a common trait in flowering plants that promotes out-breeding. It is a trait that allows plants to produce more flowers than they can produce themselves, and it is often used to encourage out-of-bred plants to reproduce. In Primula primroses, for example, the flowers of a species called Primula veris have two types of flowers: short styles and long anthers. These flowers are produced by a gene called CYP734A50, which encodes an enzyme that breaks down a chemical called brassinosteroids, which is produced by plants to help them grow and reproduce. However, it is not clear how this enzyme works. Nowak et al. have identified the gene that encodes the enzyme as the gene responsible for the short styles in Primula. The experiments show that the enzyme is only present in the short-styled S-morph flowers, and that it is specifically expressed in the S-moron styles of these flowers. When the gene is switched off, the style becomes longer and the style cells become smaller, which limits the size of the flower. This is because the enzyme breaks down the brassinsosteroids. The enzyme is also found in the genes that encode the genes for the genes involved in male sex determination, and so it is likely that this enzyme is responsible for male sex-determining genes in mammals. These findings provide a mechanistic explanation for the shorter styles of the Primula flowers. They also shed light on the evolution of the gene for a complex plant supergene, which may help us to understand how the evolution process of a complex gene.
Pubertal development is essential for the development of the embryo and the control of reproduction. The hormones produced by the ovary and the pituitary gland are essential for these processes to work properly. The release of hormones from the ovaries is controlled by the release of a hormone called GnRH, which is produced by a group of cells in the hypothalamus called the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus ( or ARH for short ). The Kisspeptin neurons in the ARH are thought to play a key role in this process, but it is not clear how they do so. Previous studies have shown that the Kiss1 receptors on the Kiss neurons communicate with each other, but the details of how this happens are not clear. Now, Navarro et al. have used a combination of techniques to investigate how Kiss1 receptor neurons in mice synchronize their activity to release GnRH. The experiments show that Kiss1 neurons release a chemical called neurokinin B, which activates the Kiss receptors. This causes the neurons to release another chemical called dynorphin, which in turn activates the kiss receptors. Together, these two chemicals activate the Kiss receptor neurons, which then release a third chemical called glutamate, which stimulates the Kiss-releasing neurons to fire. This in turn causes the Kiss neuron to release a second chemical called glutamatergic glutamate, and this in turn triggers the Kiss and GnRH neurons to respond to each other. The results of the experiments suggest that Kiss receptors in Kiss1ARH neurons play a dual role in controlling the release and secretion of GnRHIs. The next step will be to find out how the Kiss2 receptors and the GnRHAs communicate with one another. This could help us to understand how the brain works.
When an embryo develops, it is important to understand how the cells that make up the embryo develop into the tissues and organs that will form the embryo’s final shape and function. A protein called bone morphogenic protein ( or BMP for short ) plays a key role in this process. It helps to maintain the pluripotent state of the embryo, which is the state in which cells can develop into any type of cell in the body. BMP is also required for the formation of the mesoderm, a structure that forms the outer layer of the developing embryo. However, it was not clear how BMP controls the differentiation of the cells in the embryo into the mesodermal or neural tissues. To investigate this question, Faunes et al. used a technique called reporter cells to study the expression of a gene called Id1, which encodes a protein that controls the activity of a protein called Cdh1. This protein is known to be important for embryonic stem cells to develop into either a mesodermium or a neural tissue. The experiments show that BMP prevents neural cells from becoming mesodermis, but not mesoderms, by blocking the expression level of Cdh 1. This prevents the cells from developing into mesodermic cells, but does not prevent them from becoming neural cells. Faune et al ’s findings show that the BMP protein acts by preventing the cells of the early embryo from becoming either mesodermi or neural cells, and that this prevents the differentiation. The next step following on from this work is to investigate how the expression levels of the Cdh-1 protein are regulated in the early in the development of the mouse embryo.
Cells use a structure called the centrosome to organize the cell’s internal skeleton, which is made up of a network of filaments called microtubules. The microtubule network is made of two main types of proteins, called centrioles. The older centriole is called the ‘mother’, and the younger one is called ‘daughter’. The two centriules are different in age, structure and function, and so it is not clear how they are able to coordinate their activities during quiescence, a state in which the cell is not dividing. One possibility is that the daughter centriol undergoes a series of changes during the cell cycle that allows it to acquire these features. However, this idea is not well understood. To address this question, Mahjoub et al. studied mouse and human cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that a protein called Cep120 is found on the daughter and mother centriols of quiescent cells. This protein is known to be involved in the assembly of the cilia that line the surface of the cell, and is also known to play a role in the formation of cilia in humans. The results of the experiments show, however, that Cep 120 is also important for the assembly and function of the daughter cilia. Without the protein, the centrioli are unable to assemble properly, and they cannot communicate with each other and communicate with the rest of the cells. The findings of Mahjob et al. suggest that the centreoles of quyingcent cells may be able to regulate the assembly process by controlling the activity of other proteins that are involved in cilia assembly. The next step will be to understand how this process is regulated.
Neurons and glial cells in the brain communicate with each other at junctions known as synapses. These junctions are made up of junctions between cells called synapses, which are formed between cells that are connected to each other by junctions called retinal synapses and synapses between cells with different types of neurons. Neurons release chemicals called neurotransmitters into the synapse, which in turn activate receptors on the surface of the glial cell. These receptors then release chemical messengers called glutamate and acetylcholine, which then bind to receptors on nearby neurons. The glutamate receptors on neurons release a chemical called glutamate, which is then released into the cell by the neurotransmitter cholinergic, and the acetyl choline receptors release a molecule called glutamate. The release of glutamate from the synapses in the retina, the part of the brain that controls vision, is thought to be important for the development of the retina. The retina is the first organ in the body to develop and mature, and it is the last organ to develop into a fully working retina. During this period of development, the retina is spontaneously active, and ganglion cells ( the output cells of the retinal retina ) release calcium ions into the retina that spread laterally across the retina in waves. These waves are thought to help the retina to develop correctly. However, it was not clear how the neurons and the Müller cells in this region of the developing retina communicate with one another. To investigate this, Hoon et al. used a technique called two-photonography to record the calcium signals in the retinas of mice. The experiments show that neurons and Müller cell activity in response to retinal waves is regulated by a number of different receptors. When the neurons release glutamate, the calcium ions in Müller neurons are blocked, whereas when the glutamate ions are released, they are blocked. This suggests that the glutamate ion channels in the neurons allow the glutamate to reach Müller neuron-glial cells, which allows them to respond to the signals. The results of Hoon and Hoon suggest that Müller glial and neurons communicate with the retina during a critical period of retinal development. The next step will be to understand how Müller and neurons interact in the early stages of developing the retina and how this process is regulated.
When an animal dies, it becomes a large nutrient-rich resource that can support a complex and phylogenetically diverse community of organisms. As the body decomposes, this community recycles nutrients and releases nutrients into the environment. This process is known as decomposition, and the amount of time that has passed since the death of the animal is known to be the postmortem interval. However, it is difficult to establish the post-mortem interval because the decomposing body is not well understood. To address this problem, researchers often use a technique called forensic entomology to estimate the post -mortem interval, but this technique is prone to errors and biases. For example, it can take days to estimate postmortem intervals, and it can also take months to estimate how long it has been since the body has been decomposing. To overcome these limitations, researchers have developed a new method to estimate a postmortem time interval. This method uses DNA sequencing, which can be used to identify and characterize the bacteria and other microbes that are present in the body of a dead animal. Now, Meyer et al. have used this method to investigate how the microbial community changes during decomposition of mouse corpses over 48 days. The experiments show that the microbial communities change dramatically over the course of decomposition. This suggests that the method may be a useful tool for estimating postmortem timescale. The results also suggest that microbial community data can be developed into a forensic tool for the estimation of postmortem dates. The next step will be to test whether the method can be applied to other types of decomposing bodies, such as those of humans.
Animals are made up of many different types of cells, each with its own unique characteristics. The body of an animal is made of many layers of cells that are arranged in different ways, and each of these layers has a different shape and size. This is due to the fact that the body of each animal is shaped by the shape of the embryo, which is formed of a series of cells called the embryo planula, which are arranged along a long axis called the anterior–posterior axis. The Hox genes are a family of genes that are found in all bilaterian animals, and are thought to have played an important role in the evolution of bilaterians. However, it is not clear how these genes evolved to perform their roles in bilateria, and how they did so. Hox proteins are made from a group of proteins called the homeodomain family, and they interact with other proteins called TALE proteins to form a network that is essential for the formation of the animal’s body plan. The interactions between Hox and TALE are also present in some but not all non-bilaterian animals. Now, Hudry et al. have used a technique called biochemistry to investigate how the Hox/PBC/Meis network evolved in the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis. The experiments show that Hox, TALE and other members of the homeobox gene family are present in the same way in the embryo of the sea-dwelling sea ane, and that they are able to interact with each other proteins in a similar way. This suggests that these proteins evolved from a common ancestor that was already present in Bilateria. The results of the experiments also show that the interactions between these proteins are similar to those found in bilaterally-shaped animals. The next challenge is to find out whether the same molecular mechanisms that allowed the formation and maintenance of the HX/TALE network to evolve in other animal species are still present today.
Neurons communicate with each other at junctions known as synapses. These connections are formed between cells called synapses, which are made of two pairs of neurons that are connected by junctions called synapse clefts. The synapses are made up of two types of proteins called dendrites and dendritic spines, which connect the cell membrane to the surface of the neuron. The dendrite membrane contains a protein called the AMPA receptor, which is responsible for transmitting information between the two neurons. AMPA receptors are found at synapses and other sites on the membrane that connect the neurons to each other, but it is not clear where these receptors are located. Previous studies have shown that AMPARs are found in the membrane of the synapse, but the location of these receptors has been difficult to study because they are not well understood. Now, Cai et al. have used a technique called super-resolution microscopy to study AMPAR receptors in rat neurons grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that most AMPAR receptor molecules are found on the cell surface of neurons, and that they do not accumulate in the membranes that surround the synapses or in the outer membrane that surrounds the neurons. Instead, the AMPAR molecules are constantly moving in and out of the synaptic clefts and the synaptic densities. This suggests that the number of AMPAR proteins in synapses is not limited by whether the synaptic niches are already occupied. The results also suggest that the AMPAs are not bound to specific ‘slots’ in the synaptic membranes that allow them to enter and leave synapses in the first place. The next challenge is to find out whether AMPARAs are also found at other sites in the neuron membrane that are outside of the cell’s synapse.
The brain is the largest organ in the body, and is responsible for many of the most complex and complex processes in our lives. In the brain, the activity of neurons is controlled by electrical signals that travel through the membrane that surrounds the cell. These signals are generated by a process called excitability, in which the electrical activity of the cell is controlled. The electrical activity is controlled in part by a series of events that are triggered by changes in the concentration of oxygen in the brain. For example, when oxygen levels in the blood are low, the brain becomes less oxygen-rich, and the amount of oxygen released into the brain is reduced. This causes the brain to become less oxygenated, which in turn causes the cells to die. The first effect of this hypoxia is to increase the activity levels of a type of ion channel called sodium channels, which are found on the surface of neurons. These channels allow sodium ions to pass through the cell membrane and open and close in response to changes in oxygen concentration. The sodium channels are made up of two subunits, one of which is called NaV1. 2, which is found in the central nervous system and is thought to be involved in epilepsy and febrile seizures. Previous research has shown that sodium channels can be activated by a protein called SUMO1, which attaches to the membrane of the channel. However, it was not clear whether the SUMO pathway also controls the activity and activity of sodium channels. Now, Plant et al. show that SUMO activates sodium channels in rat neurons. The experiments show that hypoxias activate a single sodium channel in the rat cerebellar granule neurons, and that this activates SUMOxygen levels in these neurons are low enough to cause the sodium channels to open. The SUMO-mediated activation of the sodium channel is accompanied by a shift in the voltage of the membrane, which causes the cell to become more active. This change in voltage causes the sodium current to increase, which leads to the cell becoming more active and firing more electrical signals. Plants et al ’s findings suggest that the sodium ion channel and SUMO system may be useful targets for treating brain damage caused by hypoxemia.
The Ross River virus is a mosquito-borne disease transmitted by mosquitoes that are found in tropical and temperate regions of Australia. The virus is transmitted by four different species of mosquito, each of which is responsible for transmitting the disease to humans. However, it is not clear how the virus spreads between these different species. The vector species are also different in their seasonality, which suggests that different species may have different thermal responses to the disease. To investigate this possibility, Mordecai et al. developed a mathematical model to predict the optimal temperature for the transmission of the Ross River Virus. The model used data from seven cities in Australia to estimate the optimal temperatures for transmission of this virus. The results showed that the optimal conditions for transmission were 26–27°C, which is a range of temperatures found in the tropics, but not in temperate areas. This suggests that transmission is year-round in tropical areas, but seasonal in temperates, with a peak in the summer months. This means that the virus is likely to be more likely to spread in the winter months, which explains why the disease is more common in winter months. The temperature-dependent model also accurately predicted the time lag between temperature and reported human cases of the disease, and accurately predicted how long it takes for temperature to affect reported cases. This model also explains why there is a lag of 8–10 weeks between the onset of disease and reported cases, and how long the lag is. The next step is to test the model’s predictions using more data from other mosquito species, and to see if the model can predict how the disease will change as the climate changes.
The brain is made up of billions of neurons that communicate with each other via electrical signals called beta oscillations. These waves of activity are thought to reflect the activity of the brain’s motor neurons, which are responsible for controlling the movement of muscles and other parts of the body. The activity of these neurons can be measured by measuring the electrical activity of individual neurons in a region of the cortex called the motor cortex, which is responsible for movement. The beta band of the electrical signal is thought to be a measure of the strength of the connections between the brain and the muscles, and to reflect how the brain processes information about movement. However, it is not clear how the beta band activity reflects the underlying neural activity that drives the movement. To investigate this question, Watanabe et al. trained three macaque monkeys to perform a task called the “neurofeedback-reaching” task. The monkeys were trained to reach to a point on a screen, and were then shown a single beta target and a beta cursor on the screen. When the monkeys reached the target, they were rewarded with a small amount of a liquid that they could drink. The volunteers were then asked to hold the beta target for a few seconds, and then to reach for the target again. The experiments showed that the monkeys performed the task faster when the beta targets were held for longer than when the monkeys were held in the beta cursor. This suggests that the beta signals are used to signal the monkeys’ readiness to reach the target. The results also suggest that beta oscillation may be a useful tool to teach people how to use their beta signals to control their movements. The next step is to find out whether beta signals can be used to teach patients how to reduce the likelihood of an accidental movement.
The immune system is responsible for protecting the body from infection and disease-causing microbes. It is also responsible for controlling the immune system, which is made up of many different types of cells, including immune cells called lymphocytes and macrophages. The immune system also plays an important role in the development of diseases such as psoriasis, a condition that affects the skin and nails. The skin is covered with a protective barrier called the epidermis, which protects the body’s cells from damage and protects it from infection. However, the epidens of the skin can also become inflamed, which can lead to skin inflammation. This inflammation is caused by the immune cells in the skin becoming too active and dying, which triggers the release of chemicals that trigger the immune response. A protein called TRAF2 is a key player in this process, but it is not clear what role it plays in the body. Previous studies have shown that TRAF1 is required for TNF signalling, but this protein is not required for the activation of the NF-κB signalling pathway. This pathway is activated by TNF, which activates a protein called MAPK, which in turn activates other proteins that are involved in inflammation. Now, Zhang et al. have investigated the role of the TRAF-2 protein in mouse skin cells. The experiments show that the mice that lack TRAF 2 in their skin cells develop skin inflammation that is similar to that seen in human psoriatic skin disease. This is because the mice have a defective form of TRAF that is unable to activate NF-K-1. This suggests that the loss of TRAFF2 in keratinocytes, a type of immune cell that is found in the keratinized skin, causes the mice to develop psoriasis-like skin inflammation, and causes the skin to become hyperplasia. The mice also have a mutation in the gene that encodes the protein TRAF3, which causes the cells to die. Zhang and colleagues then deleted both TRAF4 and TRAF5 from the mice, which completely reversed the skin inflammation in the mice. These findings suggest that the lack of TRAEF2 in mice can cause psoriases to develop, and suggest that it might be useful for treating psoriasias. The next step will be to find out whether this is also the case in humans, and if so, whether it is possible to develop treatments that target TRAF and other proteins involved in the activation or destruction of the TNF pathway
Neurons communicate with each other at junctions called synapses. These junctions are formed between cells called neurons, which are connected by junctions that are made up of junctions and junctions. The synapses are formed by a network of junctures that are connected to each other via junctions known as synapses, and synapses that are absent. The connections between neurons are formed via a series of connections called synapse junctions, which form when the synapses become active. When a neuron is active, it releases chemical messengers called neurotransmitters into the synapse, which then travel to the next neuron via a process called endocytosis. Synapses are organized into compartments called vesicles, which contain the neurotransmitter molecules. Synapse vesicle membranes are made of a protein called clathrin, which is found on the surface of the cell membrane and is known to play a key role in the recycling of synaptic vesicular membranes. However, it is not clear how the vesicules are recycled from the membrane of the neuron. One possibility is that veses are recycled by a process known as bulk endocytic fission, in which the membrane membrane is remodeled and the membrane ends up containing large vacuoles that contain a large number of endocytes. This process is called bulk endosomes, and is thought to occur in response to a strong stimulus, such as when the neuron activity is strong enough to cause the neuron to be active. Now, Raimondi et al. have used a technique called electron microscopy to study the recycling in synapses between neurons. The experiments show that, in the absence of two proteins called dynamin 1 and dynamin 3, the membrane that surrounds synapses is not destroyed. Instead, the membranes of the neurons are recycled in bulk endo-somes. This is not accompanied by the formation of clathrins on the cell surface, and this process continues even when the neurons do not have dynamin. This suggests that the process of recycling synaptic vvesicles is independent of the activity of dynamin and clathin. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether this process also occurs in other types of synapses and whether it is possible to use this process to control the activity and activity of neurons.
Glucocorticoids are a group of chemicals that are commonly prescribed to treat a range of diseases, including diabetes, heart disease and obesity. They are produced by the adrenal gland, which is located in the body’s central nervous system and plays a key role in regulating the body's response to stress. Glucocortex is a small gland in the back of the adrenum that produces the hormone cortisol, which helps to regulate the body to cope with stress. The adrenal glands are also involved in the production of hormones, such as adrenaline, which are released from the adreno-pituitary gland and the hypothalamus, which controls the release of hormones from the pituitary glands. The levels of cortisol in the blood and other organs of the body are regulated by a complex network of genes and other molecules called microRNAs, which interact with each other to produce molecules of messenger RNA ( or miRNA for short ). The amount of miRNA in the bloodstream is a good indicator of how much a person has been exposed to a drug, but it is difficult to measure the effect of the drug. To address this problem, Sorgdrager et al. used a combination of genetic and biochemical techniques to study the effects of glucocortics on the blood of 10 people with a condition called Addison‘s disease. The experiments showed that the levels of miRNAs in blood cells and adipose tissue were both higher in people who had been treated with high doses of the drugs than in those who had received low doses. This suggests that these two types of treatment may have different effects on the same genes. The results also suggest that miRNA levels may be used as a biomarker to assess the effect that a drug has on the body. The next step will be to identify the genes that are switched on or off in response to the drug, and to find out whether these genes are also switched on in people with other diseases.
Cells use amino acids to make proteins and other molecules that are essential for life. When amino acids are scarce, the cells use a process called autophagy to break down the waste products of the cell and recycle them into new ones. This process is known as “autophagy” and is essential for the cell to survive and grow. The cells of mammals, including humans, use a protein called rapamycin complex 1 ( mTORC1 ) to detect amino acids and to switch on the production of new proteins. This protein is activated by a complex of enzymes called RAG GTPases, which are found on the surface of a compartment called the lysosome, which is where the amino acids enter the cell. The amino acids that are present in this compartment are then transported to the cytosol, where they are broken down into smaller molecules called amino acids. The mTOR complex is activated when amino acids become available, but it is not clear how this process works. Previous studies have shown that mTOR itself moves to the lysis site, a compartment within the cell where the waste product is broken down, in response to amino acids being present. However, it was not clear whether this process also takes place inside the cell, or if it is a process that takes place outside the cell itself. To address this question, Bar-Peled et al. have now used a technique called live imaging to study the dynamics of mTOR activation in human cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that m TORC1 is activated in response of the cells to amino acid availability. This is a very quickly, with the protein moving to the cell’s lysis compartment within a few minutes. The activity of the mTOR activates several other proteins that are involved in protein synthesis and cell growth. This suggests that the protein kinase mTOR can be activated by amino acids in the lyso-somal compartment, but not in the cell's plasma membrane. The next step will be to find out how mTOR interacts with these proteins and how they interact with each other to activate mTOR.
Viruses and cancer cells can be recognized by immune cells called dendritic cells, which are found in the body’s immune system. These cells recognize and respond to foreign molecules called antigens, which can come in the form of proteins or molecules. Antigens are made by the immune system and are recognized by receptors on the surface of the cell. These receptors are able to recognize and bind to specific types of molecules, which in turn can trigger the immune response. Antibodies are proteins that recognize specific molecules and can bind to receptors on other cells. Antigen-presenting cells, such as dendrites and macrophages, are responsible for recognizing and responding to the antigene, but it is not clear how they do this. One way that antigen-presenters can recognize and react to antigen-containing molecules is by attaching a sugar-like structure to them. This process is known as cross-presentation. However, it is unclear how the sugar-containing structure of the antigen affects how efficiently it is recognized by the receptors. Now, Gringhuis et al. show that adding a sugar molecule called LeX to the glycan structure of a well-known antigen called Ovalbumin ( OVA ), which is found on dendrite cells, causes it to bind to a lectin receptor called MGL1. This causes OVA to bind more strongly to the lectin receptors, which allows the antigen to be recognized more efficiently. This in turn allows the T helper cells to recognize the antigen and respond more strongly. The experiments also show that the addition of LeX onto OVA increases the number of CD8+ T cells in the mouse immune system, which helps the immune cells to specialize into specific types. This suggests that the sugar molecules on OVA can be used as a template to design vaccines against cancer and infectious diseases. The next step will be to find out whether the addition or removal of sugar molecules from OVA could be used to develop vaccines that target MGL-1.
Bacteria are able to sense when and where other bacteria are present in a group and to decide what to do about it. For example, bacteria that produce a toxin called cyanide are more resistant to cyanide than bacteria that do not produce cyanide, and are therefore more likely to survive. This is because cyanide is produced by a type of toxin called type VI secretion system, which is made by a family of enzymes called the LuxR family of proteins. The LuxR proteins bind to a group of genes called the BtaR1 family of transcriptional regulators, which are found on the surface of many bacteria. When the B. thailandensis bacterium is growing in a broth, it is able to produce more cyanide when it is exposed to the toxin. However, the toxin-producing bacteria are unable to respond to this toxin because they are not able to interact with other bacteria in the broth. This means that they cannot produce the cyanide toxin. To overcome this problem, the BTAR1 gene is switched on in the bacteria, and the toxin is released into the cell. This allows the toxin to bind to the cell surface and kill it. The toxin is then delivered to the other cells in the group, which in turn kills the toxin producing bacteria. This process is known as “type VI secretion”, and it is called “policing” because the toxin kills the bacteria that are not producing cyanide. The bacteria that produces the toxin are also able to kill other bacteria that have not produced cyanide and are not responding to the toxins. This “police” mechanism helps to control the growth of the bacteria. Now, Russell et al. have used a technique called RNA sequencing to investigate how the BataR1 system controls the production of cyanide in the Bada bacteria. The experiments show that the BbaR1 genes are switched on by a signaling molecule called acyl-homoserine lactone. This molecule is produced in response to the presence of other bacteria and is known to be involved in regulating hundreds of genes. The results of the experiments showed that when the BabaR1 signaling molecule is switched off, the bacteria are less able to grow and multiply. This suggests that the bacteria use this signaling molecule as a “copying machine” to control how many cyanide-resistant bacteria are produced. Russell etal. also found that the bacterium’s ability to control cyanide production depends on its ability to regulate the
In the brain, the activity of neurons in a region called the hippocampus plays an important role in learning and memory. The hippocampus is part of the brain’s reward system, which is responsible for processing information about the world around us. The activity of the hippocampus is controlled by a region of the cortex called the medial prefrontal cortex, which controls the processing of information about our environment. In adults, the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex communicate with each other to form networks that control our behavior and decision-making abilities. However, it is not clear how these networks are formed in the developing brain at an early stage of development. To investigate this question, Bitzenhofer et al. used a technique called optogenetics to manipulate the activity in the hippocampus of newborn mice. The experiments show that the activity patterns of the hippocampal neurons in the dorsal and ventral regions of the mouse hippocampus are different from those in the ventral region. This suggests that the two areas of the developing hippocampus communicate with one another in a different way. The hippocampal activity in both regions is synchronized with the firing of the neurons in another area called the intermediate/ventral hippocampus, which in turn synchronizes the firing patterns of neurons from both areas. This synchrony of activity is thought to be important for the development of memory and attentional abilities in the adult brain. The results of the experiments suggest that the hippocampus-hippocampal communication is important for learning and attention in the first few weeks of life. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the hippocampus influences the development and function of the prefrontal circuits in adults.
Genes are the building blocks of proteins, and they are essential for life on Earth. The genes that code for these proteins are made from DNA, which is packaged into a molecule called RNA, and are then transcribed to make proteins. The first step in this process is to make a molecule of RNA called a messenger RNA ( or mRNA ), which contains the instructions to make the protein. This mRNA is then translated into proteins, which are then used to build the proteins that the cells need to make. The process of making mRNA involves a series of steps that are coordinated by a protein called RNA polymerase II ( or RNAPII for short ). The RNA polymerases are made up of a group of proteins called the C-terminal domain ( or CTD ), each of which is made of repeats of repeating amino acids. The CTD contains a large number of repeats, and it is thought that these repeats are important for the production of the mRNA. However, it is not clear how many repeats of the CTD can be added to a single protein, and how these modifications interact with each other to regulate the expression of the gene. To address this question, Schroeder et al. studied the role of the K7 region of the largest subunit of RNAP II in vertebrates and invertebrates. The experiments show that, in mammals, the CTDs of the two largest subunits of the protein have 21 repeats, but the number of these repeats varies between different species. Schroeder and Strahl also found that the number and position of the amino acids added to the CTDS can be controlled by adding or removing methyl groups. This means that the amount of methyl groups can be fine-tuned to control how much mRNA is made. Schroder and Stahl also identified two new methyl groups that can be removed from the CTds. These groups are called K7me1 and K7ac, and were found to be present at the earliest stages of the transcription of the genes. The next step is to find out whether these two groups are involved in regulating the levels of mRNA production in cells.
Skeletal muscle cells are surrounded by a network of stem cells called skeletal muscle satellite cells. These cells are found in the muscle tissue of the skeletal muscle, and they are responsible for repairing and repairing the damaged muscle tissue. When a muscle muscle is injured, the muscle cells in these cells become activated and divide to produce a new population of muscle cells called myofibers. These muscle cells then divide to form new muscle cells, which are called myoblasts. The muscle cells that form myoblars are able to divide rapidly, but they are unable to replace damaged muscle cells. This is because the muscle cell’s stem cells are not able to produce enough new cells to replenish the muscle. The stem cells in skeletal muscle cells have a number of different types of genes that are switched on or off depending on whether they are active or inactive. These genes are regulated by a series of proteins called transcription factors, which regulate the activity of the genes. One transcription factor called MyoD is a transcription factor that is activated when the muscle muscle cells become active. The transcription factor binds to a region of the messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecule that encodes the gene for MyoDon, which is then translated into a protein called TTP. The TTP gene encodes a transcriptional regulator of myogenesis, and it is known to be involved in the formation of myoblastic cells. However, it is not clear how the transcription factor is regulated. To investigate this further, Farina et al. used a technique called gene chip analysis to look for changes in the gene expression of the transcription factors in muscle cells from mice after muscle injury. The experiments showed that the expression of several transcription factors was different in muscle cell types that were activated after muscle damage compared to those that were not activated. This suggests that transcription factors regulate the production of mRNA by other proteins that are not involved in transcription. The results of the experiments also showed that a protein known as Tristetraprolin, which was previously known to regulate mRNA production, is involved in regulating the production and activity of MyoDON. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether other transcription factors are also involved in this process. If they are, this could lead to new treatments for skeletal muscle diseases.
Inflammatory bowel diseases ( or IBDs for short ) are a group of conditions that affect the digestive system, including ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. These diseases are caused by a combination of bacteria and other microbes in the intestine. They are often difficult to treat, and are often refractory to conventional therapies. In infants, the immune system is particularly vulnerable to the development of IBD. The immune system contains cells called macrophages that help to fight off the bacteria and microbes that are invading the body. The IL10 receptor is a protein that is found on the surface of many immune cells in the body, and it is known to be important for preventing inflammation in infants. However, it is not clear how the IL10R protein controls the immune response in the first few weeks of life. To investigate this question, Shouval et al. genetically modified mice that lack the IL1 receptor to develop colitis. The experiments show that the mice that do not have the receptor do not develop signs of colitis during the first two weeks of their lives. However the mice with the receptor develop colitic symptoms in the third week of life, which coincides with the transition from breast milk to solid food. This suggests that IL10 receptors are essential for preventing colitis in infants, but it was not clear whether this is the case in the absence of the receptor. The mice that lacked the receptor did not show signs of inflammation in the intestines of their littermates, and did not develop any signs of intestinal inflammation. The results suggest that the receptor is required to prevent colitis, but not the cause of it. The next step will be to find out which genes are switched on or off in these mice, and to see if these genes contribute to the onset of colitic bowel disease.
Genes are made up of DNA and RNA molecules, which contain instructions to make proteins. These instructions are then translated into molecules of messenger RNA ( or mRNA for short ), which are then used as templates to build proteins. RNA molecules are made by a group of proteins called the mutator complex, which is made of many different proteins that interact with each other to make molecules of RNA called small RNAs. These molecules are essential for the cell to work properly, and are also important for the production of proteins and other molecules that are needed for life. In many organisms, including mammals, flies, and zebrafish, the small RNA molecules that make up a gene’s messenger RNA are produced by a process called small RNA amplification. However, in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans, a different process is used to amplify the smallRNA molecules. In this process, a group called the ‘mutator complex’ synthesizes large amounts of small RNA molecule called siRNA, which can then be used to silence the genes that make the messenger RNA molecules. The process involves a series of steps in which the messenger RNAs are recognized by the piRNA pathway, and then amplified by the mutant complex. The steps between mRNA recognition and amplification are not well understood, and it is not clear how the two processes are coordinated. Now, Zhang et al. have identified a protein called SIMR-1 that is required to coordinate the two steps. SIMR1 is part of a family of proteins known as the Tudor domain proteins, which help to assemble the mutators. The experiments show that SIMR proteins are found in a number of different locations in the worm’ cells, and that are adjacent to each other and to the sites where piRNA molecules are produced. The results suggest that the SIMR protein may be involved in coordinating the process between the two stages of the process. The next challenge is to find out how SIMR works with the other proteins involved in the process, and to understand how the different parts of the pathway work together to control the activity of different genes.
The cerebellum is a part of the brain that controls the movement of the body’s internal organs, such as the eyes and the heart, and is also involved in learning and memory. It is made up of many different types of cells, and the cerebellar cortex is the largest part of this brain. The cerebellal cortex is made of a network of cells called the Purkinje neurons, which are found in the brain of animals ranging from fish to humans. Purkinjes are a type of neuron that is found in all animals, but they are particularly important in animals that use their cerebellums to control movement. The activity of Purkinji neurons is thought to be important for learning how to coordinate movements, but it is not clear whether they are able to switch between ‘up’ and ‘down’ states. To investigate this question, Takeuchi et al. used a technique called whole cell patch clamping to record the electrical activity of the neurons in zebrafish larvae. The experiments show that Purkinja neurons in the cerebrum of zebrafishes can switch between up and down states, and that they can switch from one state to another spontaneously or with current injection. The recordings also show that the activity of these neurons is bistable, meaning that they switch between the up and the down states at the same time. This bistability was observed soon after the neurons were created, and persisted until late in the larval stages of the fish. Further experiments showed that when the neurons are in the activity is regulated by a protein called AMPAR, which is found on the surface of the cell. This protein is known to be involved in triggering bursts of electrical activity. The next step following on from this work will be to find out whether the bursts of activity are also found in mammals. This will help to understand how the brain works and how it is organized.
Cells use proteins called actin filaments to build the membranes that surround them. These actin fibers are made up of many different types of filaments, and actin is a key component of the cell’s internal skeleton. When a cell divides, the membrane that surrounds it is pulled inward to form a flat sheet. This sheet then bends and pulls inward in a process called endocytosis, which is essential for the cell to survive and thrive. The membrane of a cell is made of a thin sheet of actin, which can be folded into a cylinder-like shape. The actin filament network that forms around the cell membrane is called the actin cytoskeleton, and it helps to stabilize the membrane. However, it is not clear how actin networks are organized and how they are able to generate force. To address this question, Almeida-Souza et al. used a combination of experimental and computational modeling techniques to study how actins are organized in human cells. The experiments showed that actin proteins are organized into a network of branched actin branches that are oriented towards the base of the membrane, and that bend to form the ‘pit’ of the endocytic membrane. The model also showed that the network is able to produce enough force to keep the membrane curved to allow cells to take up macromolecules from the outside of their cell. The findings presented by Alameida-souza and Sochacki suggest that the shape of the membranes in cells is important for the formation of the pit. The next step will be to understand how the network of actins is organized and the forces that it generates. This could help to develop new treatments for diseases such as cancer and cancer-related diseases.
Cells use a process called macropinocytosis to take up fluids and other molecules from their surroundings. This process is important for a wide range of biological processes, including the uptake of drugs and the collection of antigens by immune cells. The process involves a ring of proteins called actin forming a ring around the cell membrane that surrounds the cell. The actin is made from a protein called actino-3, which is found on the surface of the cell, and the actin ring is then joined together with other proteins to form a ring called the macropinosome. The macropinsome is made up of many different types of actin, but it is not clear how it forms. In a type of cell called Dictyostelium, which grows in liquid medium, macropino-somes are found in the membrane of the brain cells of animals and other animals. These cells have a thin membrane that is surrounded by a ring that is made of actins, and they are able to grow and divide into many different shapes. However, it was not known how macroposomes form. To address this question, Zatulovskiy et al. used a technique called lattice light sheet microscopy to study macropiosomes in the brain of a Dictalium cell called axenic cells. This revealed that macropinasomes form from cup-shaped extensions of the membrane that extend outwards from the cell's surface. The cup-like structures are surrounded by patches of active actin that are active Ras and PIP3, but not active Rac. The patches are also associated with the ring of active SCAR, a protein that is involved in the formation of dendritic structures on the cell’s surface. This suggests that the actins are recruited to the edges of macropinesomes by the patch of active Ras, and that the ring recruits the ring to the centre of the cup. The patch also recruits a group of nucleators called myosin-1, which helps to move actin nucleators to the periphery of the cups. The findings of Zatulo-skiy, Chen, Veltman et al suggest that the patch-shaped macropinusomes form by recruiting actin to the edge of the macrophages, which are immune cells that are responsible for detecting and destroying invading microbes. The next step will be to find out how the actinosomes form and how they are organized in the cell and
DNA is made up of two strands of DNA that are wrapped around each other to form a structure called a chromosome. The DNA is then packaged into a ring-shaped structure called the chromatin, which is made of proteins called cohesins. The cohesin ring is essential for the cell to divide and to make sure that the chromosomes are correctly separated. In eukaryotic cells, a protein complex called Scc2NIPBL/Scc4Mau2 ( or Scc4 for short ) is responsible for this process. This complex is made from a protein called SCC2, which encodes a gene that encodes an enzyme called NIPBL, and a protein named SCC4, which codes for a protein that is found on the surface of the cell's DNA. Scc3 and Scc5 are two other proteins that are involved in the assembly of the chromatids that make up the chromosomes. The two proteins work together to form the ring-like structure of the chromosomes, and they are also involved in a process called centromeric cohesion, which ensures that the DNA is tightly packed around the two sister chromosomes. However, it is not clear how the Scc family of proteins controls the location of the cohesine ring. To investigate this further, Murayama et al. used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the structure of Scc1, Scc6, and SCC3 in yeast cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that Scc7 is a protein with a small patch on its surface that interacts with a region of the SCC-4 complex. This patch is required for Scc8 to bind to the co-hesin and to form an association with Scc9. The patch is also found on Scc10, SCC11, and also on SCC12. Murayami et al ’s findings suggest that the patch is a second level of cohesination that is separate from its role in establishing sister chromatid cohesion. The next challenge is to understand how the patch interacts with the other Scc proteins and how it is able to control the location and timing of the complex.
Animals need to be able to store energy to survive and reproduce in the face of a shortage of food. This is particularly important for hibernating animals, such as ground squirrels, which are unable to eat during their hibernation season, but instead rely on their fat reserves to fuel their survival. In the winter, these animals hibernate for up to seven months, and are able to survive by using their body fat reserves as a fuel source. However, the amount of fat stored in the body is not enough to sustain hibernation, and so the animals have to find alternative ways to store their energy reserves. For example, some hibernators may use a technique called torpor, in which they sleep for a few hours a day, to conserve energy. This strategy is thought to help them to grow and gain weight before hibernation. But little is known about the effects of torpor on the growth and fattening of hibernated animals. To address this question, Giroud et al. studied juvenile garden dormice ( Eliomys quercinus ), a small rodent that hibernates in the winter. The experiments involved 36 juvenile dormice that were born late in the reproductive season, meaning that they were born in the summer, but not in the spring. The results showed that the juvenile dormouse grew twice as fast as early-born dormice, and gained twice as much body fat as the later-born ones. The juveniles also used torpor more often and longer than the early- born dormice. The late-born juveniles also produced less fat than the earlier-born individuals, but reached similar levels of body fat content before hiberning, and were more often breeders than early-birthed dormice during the following year. These results suggest that torpor is incompatible with growth, but promotes fattenning and consolidates pre-hibernation fat stores. The next challenge will be to find out whether this strategy also works in other hibernator species, including humans and other animals.
Cells in the nervous system are made up of thousands of genes, which must be switched on and off at the right time and in the right places to perform their roles. This process is called gene expression, which is controlled by a group of proteins called RNA binding proteins ( RBPs ). These proteins are found in all living organisms, and are known to be involved in regulating the expression of many genes. RNA editing is a process in which RNA molecules are cut into smaller molecules called messenger RNAs ( or mRNAs for short ), which are then translated to make proteins. RNA-editing proteins are known as RNA-binding enzymes that are able to change the structure of the mRNA molecules. RNA binding enzymes are also known to alter the activity of other RNA molecules, but it is not clear how they do this. One of the most common types of RNA editing enzyme is called adenosine deaminase 2 ( ADR-2 ), or ADR for short. This enzyme is found in the human brain, where it is known to help regulate the expression and activity of many different genes. However, it is also known that ADAR-2 is also found in other animals, including worms and mice, and that it is thought to be important for normal brain development. In the worm Caenorhabditis elegans, the loss of ADR causes the worms to be less able to sense chemicals that are harmful to the worms’ nervous system, which can cause them to become paralyzed. Previous studies have shown that the loss or absence of ADAR proteins in C. elegans can cause a number of diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and brain tumors. However it was not clear what role ADRaman et al. set out to investigate in the worm. The worms were genetically engineered to produce a gene called clec-41, a protein that is important for the worms' ability to sense volatile chemicals. The experiments showed that removing the gene from the neural cells of the worms caused them to lose their ability to detect chemicals. This was because the gene was edited in a region of the RNA molecule that is involved in sensing these chemicals. However the worms could still sense the chemicals, which suggests that the gene editing was not enough to cause the loss in chemotaxis. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the gene expression of the gene that is edited in the worms is regulated. This will help to understand the role of adR
Influenza viruses are a group of viruses that cause an infectious disease that can cause serious illness and death. Influenza A viruses are one of the most common types of viruses in the world. These viruses are able to hijack the cell’s machinery to make proteins, which are essential for the virus to multiply and spread. The influenza virus hijacks this machinery by hijacking the genes that code for proteins. The flu virus uses a number of different strategies to hijacking this machinery. One of these strategies is to shut off the production of proteins in the cell, which is known as “host shutoff”. This shutoff occurs when the flu virus cuts a protein called eIF4G, which prevents the cell from making proteins. However, it is not clear how the virus achieves this shutoff. Previous studies have shown that the flu viruses use two different mechanisms to shut down the production process. One is to cut the protein that is needed to make the proteins, while the other is to degrade the proteins that the cell needs to make them. The second mechanism is to use a process called ribosome degradation, which allows the cell to degrade its own messenger RNA ( or mRNA ), which contains the instructions needed to build the proteins. It is thought that the influenza virus uses both of these methods to shutoff host genes, but it was not clear if they are equally effective. To address this question, Khaperskyy et al. used a technique called RNA-sequencing to measure the levels of mRNA in human and influenza virus genes. The experiments show that the virus genes are not preferentially translated into proteins, but instead are not translated at all. This is because the virus hijack of the mRNA is not able to degrade it. The next step following on from this work will be to find out how the influenza viruses use this process to shut-off host gene expression. This could help scientists to understand how influenza viruses hijack host genes and how they can cause disease.
When a cell divides to make new cells, it must communicate with the other cells in the body to coordinate the formation of new tissues and organs. This process is called morphogenesis, and it is essential for many processes in animals, including the development of organs such as the lungs and the heart. In the lungs, a protein called fibroblast growth factor ( or FGF for short ) plays a central role in this process. This protein is produced by cells in a structure called the air-sac-primordium ( or ASP ), which is a branch of the wing of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. The Bnl protein is a signaling molecule that is produced in the wing disc cells of the developing wing and is then sent to the ASP cells. The ASP cells then use a process called cytoplasmic communication to send the Bnl signal to the wing-disc cells, which in turn send the signal to other cells within the ASP. The signal then travels along the surface of the ASP cell body to reach the cell body, where it is released from the source cell and travels to the recipient cell body. This is known as the ‘flow’ of the signal. However, it is not clear how the flow of the BNF signals is controlled. To address this question, Roy et al. used a technique called CRISPR/Cas9 to study the distribution of BNF-GFP tags on the surface proteins in the ASP of fruit flies. The experiments showed that the pattern of the tags was highly sensitive to light, and that the signal molecules moved along the membrane that surrounds the ASP to the source cells. This revealed that the BNLF-gfp tags formed a gradient of Bnl molecules along the ASP’s surface. The gradient was formed by the cells that produce the BNT signal moving along the cytoplastes that extend from the end of the air sac to the tip of the wings. The number of BNT-containing cytonemes extended by the ASP-producing cells decreased gradually as the distance from the origin of the FNF signal increased. This gradient was then controlled by the cytoneme-containing BNT molecules. The results presented by Roy and Kornberg suggest that the flow and flow of BNN signals in the air space is controlled by a feedback mechanism. The next challenge is to understand how the patterning of the gradient is controlled, and how it is able to change over time and space.
Proteins are made of chains of building blocks called amino acids, which are arranged in a structure called a helix. The helix is made up of two alpha helices, which can be either straight or folded into a superhelix, which is held together by a core that is mostly hydrophobic. The structure of a coiled coil is well understood, and it is the only structure that can be described by parametric equations. This means that the structure of coiled coils can be studied in unprecedented detail. However, it is not clear how the coiled-coil structure can be manipulated in this way. Hartmann et al. have now used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the structure and dynamics of a new type of coil in a bacterium called Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans. The experiments show that a small number of amino acids can be inserted into the coiling coils of the bacterium. These insertions strain the supercoil to the breaking point, causing the coils to form short segments called β-strands that move the path of the chain by 120° around the trimer axis. The result is an α/β coil, which retains only one hydrogen bond per repeat unit from the parent coil. Hartman et al ’s findings show that it is possible to create a new structure of the coil with a structure that has not been described so far. The next step will be to find out whether this new structure is found in other proteins, and if so, how it is achieved.
Cells use a protein called clathrin as a scaffold to support their outer membranes. This coat is made of proteins called endocytic proteins that are attached to the cell's outer membrane by a network of proteins known as the actin cytoskeleton. Clathrin is also known as a ‘clathrin coat’ because it is coated with a coat of actin, which is made up of many different proteins. The endocytosis process is a complex process in which the endocytes of the cell divide to form new cells. The clathrins coat is thought to be responsible for this process, but it is not clear what role it plays in this process. One of the proteins that is known to be involved in the process is called epsin. This protein is found on the surface of cells and is known for its ability to interact with other proteins that help the cell to divide. However, it was not known what role epsins play in endocyts. To investigate this question, Skruzny et al. genetically engineered mice to lack all three of the three genes that encode epsisins. The experiments show that the cells of these mice had a defect in the formation of new cells, and that these cells were much smaller than normal cells. Further experiments showed that the absence of epsinas from the cells caused the clathrs to grow abnormally, which resulted in the cells being unable to divide properly. This was due to a defect that was caused by the lack of the epsina's ability to bind to actin. The results of the experiments suggest that epsine plays a key role in the endocontrolling the growth of clathri-coated pits, which helps to keep the cell’s outer membrane in place. The next step will be to find out what role the eopsin plays in other processes, such as cell division and cell growth.
Asthma is the most common non-communicable condition among children. It affects more than 235 million people worldwide, and is estimated to affect over 235 million children. In Africa, the prevalence of asthma is increasing, particularly in urban areas. However, it is not clear why this is the case, or what factors increase the risk of asthma in children in urban Uganda. To investigate this, Mpairwe et al. studied 555 children with asthma and 1115 children without asthma in an urban area in Uganda. The children were aged 5 to 17 years old, and were screened for asthma using a questionnaire. The asthma cases were more likely to have a history of asthma and to have more severe symptoms of the condition than the control group. The main risk factors for asthma were higher education for fathers and mothers, higher levels of socio-economic status, being born in a small town or in the city, and having a family history of allergic diseases. The risk of having asthma increased further in children born in rural areas, and in children who had a history or had other asthma risk factors, such as having a father who had asthma and a mother with asthma. MpairWe et al also found that asthma was associated with a strong rural-town-city risk gradient, higher parental socio-economy status and urbanicity. This work provides the basis for future studies to identify specific environmental/lifestyle factors responsible for increasing asthma risk among children in the urban areas of Uganda and other low- and middle income countries.
Zebrafish have a distinctive pattern of stripes on their bodies and fins that are made up of a mixture of dark and light stripes. The stripes are made of three types of cells: melanophores, which are the cells that produce the dark stripes, and xanthophores that produce light stripes, which cover the dark stripe regions. The pattern is formed by interactions between the melanophore and xantherophore cells, and between the iridophores and the melanoplast cells, which form the light stripes on the trunk of the zebrafish. In zebrafishes, the pattern is caused by a protein called leopard, which encodes a protein that is found in the membrane that surrounds the cell. The gene for leopard encodes an enzyme called connexin 41. 8, which is responsible for the formation of gap junctions, which allow small molecules and ions to pass through the membrane of neighbouring cells. However, it is not clear how the two types of chromatophores interact with each other to form the striped pattern. To investigate this further, Watanabe et al. used a genetic screen to find mutants of leopard that lack the gene that encodes connexins. The results showed that the mutant leopard and luchs proteins are required for the stripes to form in zebra fish, but not in the iridsophores. Further experiments showed that these proteins are only required in the melanaphores and xanophores but not the iridescenters. This suggests that the two cell types are not only involved in the formation, but also in the communication between them. The next step will be to find out whether other proteins are involved in this communication.
All living organisms, including bacteria, fungi, plants and animals, can detect chemicals in their environment. The sense of smell is particularly important for animals that are able to detect and discriminate between thousands of different odor molecules. Insects, for example, have the ability to detect volatile molecules using receptors called olfactory receptors, which are found on the surface of their olfaction organs. These receptors are thought to have evolved independently in insects and other animals that evolved from an aquatic crustacean ancestor, probably in the Early Ordovician, about 483 million years ago. However, it is not clear how these receptors evolved in insects. To investigate this question, Peñalva-Arana et al. studied three species of insects, including the bristletail Lepismachilis y-signata, the firebrat Thermobia domestica, and the leaf insect Phyllium siccifolium. The experiments show that the olfactory system of Lepismchilis is not based on olfactive receptors. Instead, the insect’s olfactions rely on a protein called Orco, which is found in the antennae of the insect. In addition, in Thermoba domestica and in Phyllia sicilium, Orco was found in antennae that were not involved in detecting volatile chemicals. This suggests that the insect's olfactsory system evolved later in insect evolution, after the emergence of wings. The next step following on from this work will be to identify the genes that code for Orco in other insects and to see if they are involved in the detection of volatile chemicals in the same way.
Malaria is a disease that affects millions of people around the world. It is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium falciparum, which is transmitted by mosquitoes. The disease is a major global health problem, and many countries are trying to eliminate the disease. However, many people who are infected with the parasite are not diagnosed and treated, which makes it difficult to eradicate. One way to tackle this problem is to use a strategy called mass drug administration ( MDA ). MDA is the provision of antimalarial drugs to entire populations, and it has been used in many infectious diseases, including lymphatic filariasis, soil-transmitted helminths, schistosomiasis, and trachoma. It can quickly reduce or eliminate parasite reservoirs and can act as a catalyst for subregional elimination of P. falcipharum malaria. Mda is usually used in settings with a strong public health infrastructure, including easy access to diagnosis and treatment, and an up-to-date and responsive surveillance system. If a sufficient amount of the population participates in MDA, transmission chains cannot be sustained and transmission will stop, ultimately leading to a reduction in malaria morbidity and mortality. However it is not clear whether the effectiveness of MDA depends on how much of the targeted population participates. Landier et al. have now used data from an MDA trial in Myanmar to investigate whether there is a herd effect on the spread of P. falcephaliparums. The study involved four villages in Myanmar that were undergoing MDAas. The results showed that individuals who lived in neighborhoods with a high proportion of people who did not participate in Mdaas were more likely to have a clinical episode of malaria than those who did. This herd effect was also seen in the villages with high numbers of people participating in the MDA. People living in a neighborhood with high levels of non-adherence to MDAa were also at higher risk of having a clinical infection. The findings of Landier and Takala-Harrison suggest that there may be a group-level protective effect of Mdaa on malaria. This suggests that there is an important difference between individuals living in villages with and without Mda as well as in neighborhoods that do and do not participate. The next challenge is to determine whether the results of this study are generalizable to other infectious diseases. This will be important for providing an evidence base for further research and policy work.
Genes encode the instructions needed to make proteins, which are then used to control the activity of other genes. However, the genes that code for these proteins are not identical to each other. Instead, they are made up of sequences of DNA, which can be either short or long. This is because the DNA sequence of a gene is encoded by proteins called transcription factors, which bind to DNA to control how it is transcribed. These proteins are found in all living organisms, but they are also found in a wide variety of other organisms, including humans and fruit flies. It is thought that the evolution of transcription factors has led to the emergence of new types of cells that do not exist in fruit flies, and that these cells are more similar to fruit flies than fruit flies are to humans. The transcription factors that bind to the DNA of fruit flies and humans are called transcription factor-binding domains, and they are known as TFs. However it is not clear how TFs have evolved to be able to bind to specific DNA sequences. To address this question, Jolma et al. used a technique called HT-SELEX to study the binding specificity of 242 TFs in fruit fly cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments revealed that most TFs from fruit flies have the same binding specificity as human TFs, even though the two species diverged over 600 million years ago. This suggests that TFs are highly conserved in evolution, and even if they have evolved from one species to the other, they can still recognize the same DNA sequence. The results also suggest that TF specificities are not subject to subtle drift, but instead tend to either stay very similar or evolve to a distinctly different state. The few human TF proteins that have diverged from fruit fly TFs also bind to sites that are not found in the fruit fly genome. These findings suggest that evolution of TFs is constrained by structural limitations of the TF folds and that changes in specificity are rare, and when they occur, they tend to have relatively large effects. The next step following on from this work will be to use HT- SELEX and other similar methods to study TF binding specificity in more detail in other species.
The human body is made up of two main organs: the heart and the lung. These organs are made up from cells called mesoderm and endoderm, which are found at the same time in the embryo. The two main types of cells in the heart are called cardiomyocytes and endodermal cells, respectively. The heart and lung develop from cells that come from different layers of the embryo’s outer layer, which is called the mesoderman layer. These cells are called progenitor cells, and they can develop into either the heart or the lung, depending on the stage of development. However, it is not clear how the two organs develop in the same way. To investigate this, Martyn et al. have developed a new method to create a model of the development of both the lungs and heart in a single culture of human pluripotent stem cells ( hiPSCs ). The hiPSC lineages are made of cells that can be differentiated into either heart or lung cells. This process is controlled by a series of signaling molecules that are produced by the cells. The experiments show that a combination of these signals is required for the two cells to develop into the two different types of cell. When the cells of the two cell types were grown in the presence of a drug called WNT signaling, the cells were able to differentiate into both types of heart and pulmonary cells. When these cells were removed from the culture, the two days later, they were no longer able to separate from each other. This suggests that the two types of tissue are formed from a common set of signals. The next step in the process is to separate the two groups of cells. In the future, this new method could be used to study the development and development of other organs in the human body.
Bacteria and other microbes are able to adapt to stressful conditions by changing their DNA. This process is called hypermutation. Mutations in the DNA of bacteria and other organisms can be beneficial or harmful depending on the environment and the type of mutations they cause. However, most mutations are harmless and do not affect the organism’s ability to survive. This means that the rate at which mutations occur in an organism is not always constant. Mutational rates are thought to evolve to a point where the strength of selection matches the power of random drift, where mutations are more likely to be beneficial than harmful. This suggests that mutations are generally considered to be a slow-evolving parameter that is not changing over time. But it is not clear how the rate of mutation can change so quickly. To address this question, Voordeckers et al. studied the evolution of a bacterium called Escherichia coli, which is commonly used as a model organism to study the effects of stress. The experiments show that hypermutations can rapidly emerge when the bacteria are exposed to high levels of ethanol, a chemical that is used in the production of ethanol. The rate of mutations in E. coli cells increases when the cells are under high ethanol levels, but declines again once the cells have adapted to the stress. This is because the rate increases as the cells become more resistant to the ethanol, and decreases again once they have adapted. The results suggest that hypermutations are not always harmful, and that they are often beneficial. In fact, some mutations are beneficial. For example, they can help the bacteria to survive cancer and other diseases that are caused by mutations in their DNA, such as malaria. However the rate and the number of mutations that occur in a population are not all at the same time. Therefore, the rate that a population adapts to a stressful environment can vary over time, and the rate can change rapidly. This could help explain why some bacteria are resistant to antibiotics, while others are resistant. The next step will be to find out whether hypermutators are more common in cancer cells than previously thought, and if so, whether they are more vulnerable to antibiotic resistance.
Plants and animals are able to adapt to changing environmental conditions by adjusting their metabolism to meet the demands of the changing environment. For example, when plants are starved of food, they switch on a number of genes that are involved in the production of energy, such as those involved in energy production and growth. However, it is not clear how these genes are switched on. One group of proteins known as bZIPs is a group of transcription factors that are found in plants and animals. These proteins bind to DNA and bind to specific regions of the DNA called ‘dimers’, which are found on the surface of the protein. These dimers are made up of different combinations of amino acids, which can be either proline or branched-chain amino acids. The amount of proline and the amount of brancher amino acids in a dimer can vary depending on the type of protein it is made of, and how many of these amino acids are present. The levels of prolines and branchers are also different in different plants. The role of bZZIP proteins in plants is not well understood, but it is thought that they are involved with a variety of processes, including the production and metabolism of energy. However it was not clear whether bZP-63 is involved in this process. To investigate this further, Veerabagu et al. used a technique called biochemistry to study the activity of b ZIP63 in the leaves of plants grown in the dark. The experiments show that bZip63 is a key regulator of the plant’s response to starvation, and that it is phosphorylated by a protein called SnRK1. This phosphorylation alters the structure of the dimer, which in turn changes the activity and activity of the gene that is switched on by the phosphorylating enzyme. The results of the experiments suggest that phosphorylate the bZp-63 dimer could be a new way to switch on the genes that control energy production. The next step will be to find out whether phosphorylations of other proteins that regulate the activity in the same way are also involved in regulating the activity.
Neurons communicate with each other at junctions known as synapses. These junctions allow information to be exchanged between neurons, which in turn out to be important for learning and memory. The synapses are made up of long structures called dendrites, which are connected to each other by junctions called synapses and nuclei. The dendritic spines are the structures that connect the two synapses, and they are the first part of the cell’s skeleton. When a neuron receives a signal from another neuron, it sends a signal to the nucleus, which then sends a message back to the synapse. This process is known as long-term potentiation, and it is thought that the activity of the synapses influences the expression of genes involved in long-lasting changes in the structure of the dendrite. However, it is not clear how this process is regulated. Previous studies have shown that a protein called RNF10 is found at synapses but not in the nucleus. Now, Bajaj et al. have identified a new messenger protein called importin as a messenger protein that is found in synapses at the synaptonuclear junctions of neurons. Importin is a protein messenger that is able to move from the nucleus to the cell nucleus, and is also found in the brain cells. Baudoinositol-3-kinase, a gene that is involved in the production of proteins, was also found to be involved in regulating the expression levels of genes that are involved in synapse-related changes in dendridges. The experiments show that the importin messenger protein is transported from the synaptic compartment to the nuclei of the nucleus by a process called long-distance transport. Importins are found in both neurons and the nucleus of the brain, and Baud et al ‘s findings suggest that the long distance transport of the messenger protein may be a way to control the expression level of genes in the nucleus. The next challenge is to find out how the long-range transport of this messenger protein affects the activity in neurons.
DNA is the genetic material that makes up the DNA of a cell. It is made up of many different types of proteins, which are organized into structures called nucleosomes. The DNA is wrapped around proteins called histones to form a structure called a chromatin, which is essential for the cell to work properly. A group of enzymes called Swi2/Snf2 ATPases are known to remodel the chromatin of DNA to control the structure of nucleosome regions. These enzymes are found in many different organisms, including humans and other animals. However, it is not clear how they do this. Previous studies have shown that the Swi/snf2 enzymes are able to bind to DNA and other proteins to form complexes that are needed to control how the DNA is packaged and organized in the cell. The structures of some of these complexes have been determined, but the details of the interactions between the proteins and the ATPases involved in the remodeling reactions are not well understood. Now, Wollmann et al. have used a technique called X-ray crystallography to reveal the three-dimensional structure of a Swi-snf-2 ATPase called Mot1 in a complex with DNA and a protein called TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ). The experiments show that Mot1 binds to the TBP:DNA complex in an ATP-independent manner, and that it disrupts TBP's interactions with DNA. The results suggest that the Mot1 ATPase is able to disrupt TBP proteins by disrupting the interaction between the DNA and TBP. The next step following on from this work is to understand how the ATPase interacts with TBP and the TATA protein.
Cyclic natural products are a group of compounds that are able to bind to and disrupt the activity of specific proteins in cells. These natural products can be used to treat diseases such as cancer and immune diseases, and they can also be used as probes to reveal the roles of their target proteins. Ternatin is a cyclic natural product that inhibits the growth of fat cells in the human body. Previous research has shown that it is able to inhibit the growth and proliferation of fat-producing cells by binding to a protein called elongation factor-1A. However, it was not clear what role this protein plays in regulating the growth or proliferation of the fat cells. Now, Krastel et al. have designed synthetic versions of ternatin that are up to 500 times more toxic to cancer cells than the original compound. These new ternatins were tested against cancer cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments showed that the ternats bind to a specific part of the elongation protein called the eEF1A ternary complex, which is found on the surface of the cell. This interaction is thought to be a key step in the process of elongation, and it is thought that this interaction may be important for the development of new drugs that target this complex. The new compounds also show that two unrelated natural products, didemnin and cytotrienin, can also bind to the e EF1A complex. These findings suggest that ternata may be a useful as a lead compound for treating cancer and other diseases caused by elongation factors.
Cell membranes are made up of many different types of proteins, which are arranged into structures called vesicles. These structures are made of proteins called actin, which act as a scaffold to hold the cell together. The actin is made of a protein called clathrin, which is found on the surface of the cell membrane and is essential for the cell to work properly. The endocytosis process is a process in which the actin coat is removed from the endocytic vesicle, and the clathrins are then used to build the new vesicular structure. This process is known as endocytlosis, and it is important for cells to be able to recycle their actin-coated membranes. However, it is not clear how endocylosis is regulated in cells. A group of enzymes called phosphoinositides are found at the membrane surface of actin and are known to be involved in recycling actin. One of these enzymes, called OCRL, is responsible for removing phosphate groups from the membrane. Mutations in this enzyme cause two diseases called Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease, which affect the eyes and kidneys, and are also associated with cognitive and developmental problems. OCRL is found in all tissues, and is known to interact with many other proteins that are involved in endocytnosis, including the proteins that help to transport actin to the cell surface. It was not known whether OCRL was also involved in the recycling process. Now, Vicinanza et al. have used a technique called mass spectroscopy to study the role of OCRL in cells from patients with Lowe syndrome. The experiments show that OCRL does indeed interact with clathin-containing vesules, but not with actin itself. This is because OCRL binds to a protein complex called SNX9, which helps to transport the actins to the membrane, and also binds to OCRL. This protein complex is found at a variety of sites in the cell, including at the ends of endocytes, where it is known that it is involved in transporting actin into the cell. The results of the experiments suggest that the OCRLR is important in recycling clathins, and that this process is disrupted in Lowe syndrome patients. The next challenge is to understand how OCRL interacts with the clithrin-containing actin in order to help to recycle actin at endocyts. This may help to understand the molecular basis of the disease.
Cancer is the most common form of cancer in humans and other animals, and it is caused by mutations in genes that control the activity of proteins called tumor suppressor genes. These genes are often switched on or off by a signaling pathway called the Wnt signaling pathway, which is activated by a molecule called β-catenin. The Wnt pathway is activated when cells in the body produce a protein called β catenin, which then binds to and activates genes that are involved in cancer. However, it is not clear exactly how the activity and activity of β-Catenin is regulated in cancer cells. Previous studies have shown that a protein known as GSK3 interacts with a protein complex called GSK-3βY216, which in turn interacts with another protein called PYK2, which helps to stabilize β- Catenin in the cell. This process is known as phosphorylation. However it was not clear whether this process also occurs in cancer, or whether it is a separate process. Now, Gao et al. have investigated this question by studying mouse cells grown in the laboratory. The experiments show that when the cells of mice lacking a gene called adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) were treated with a drug that blocks the activity in the APC gene, the levels of both FAK and PYC2 were increased. This led to the formation of tumors in the mice' intestines, which were then treated with the drug. This suggests that the FAK/PYK system plays a key roles in the development of intestinal tumors. The results also suggest that FAK plays an important roles in other types of cancer, such as skin cancer and liver cancer. The next challenge will be to find out whether the same effect is seen in patients with colon cancer.
When we stand still, our body is in a stable posture. But when we move, we need to be able to adjust our posture to allow us to move our body weight. This is particularly important when we are trying to navigate our way through the world. The brain is responsible for controlling the balance of the body, which is the balance between standing and walking. The balance of our body depends on the strength of the vestibular system, the part of the brain that controls the head and neck that controls how the body moves. The vestibulae are the structures that control how the head is positioned in the body and the direction in which the body is facing. When the head turns to face forward, the brain activates the muscles that control posture. However, when the head faces to the left, the same brain activity is switched off. This means that the brain has to disengage from the balance-stabilizing mechanisms that allow the body to remain in a standing posture and switch to a movement-inducing one. To test this theory, Mullick et al. asked healthy volunteers to stand still for a few minutes before they started to move. The volunteers were then asked to change their posture to a new posture, and the brain was then used to monitor the changes in the brain’s control of balance. The experiments show that the balance stabilizing mechanisms are disrupted before the volunteers start to move, but not during the transition between the two states. This suggests the brain first disengages the balance stabilization mechanisms to allow the volunteers to switch to the new posture. Mullick and Day also show that this process is not specific to one type of movement. Instead, it is a general control process that occurs during transitions between the states of standing and movement. The next challenge is to find out how the brain disengages balance stabilization systems to enable movement. This will help us to understand how the human body works and how to improve our ability to navigate.
Cyanobacteria are bacteria that live in the dark and grow in the light. They use photosynthesis to produce energy from sunlight, and they are able to survive in darkness because they can use carbon dioxide as a source of energy. However, the availability of sunlight is limited, and so cyanobacteria need to find alternative sources of energy to survive the dark. To do this, cyanobacterial cells use a process called carbon metabolism to store energy and use it to make sugars and other molecules of energy during the day. This process is controlled by a protein called RpaA, which is produced by a group of genes called the KaiABC clock. This clock is activated by the addition of a phosphate group to a molecule of DNA called KaiC, and this phosphate group is then added to the protein by a process known as phosphorylation. The activity of the phosphorylated form of the RPAA protein is regulated by the circadian clock, and the activity of this protein is known as the ‘clock’. Cyanobacteria have evolved a circadian clock to coordinate their activities with the daily changes in the environment, and to ensure that they survive periods of darkness. The cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus is a type of bacteria that is found in the tropics, and it is known to be able to live in both light and dark conditions. However it is not clear how this circadian clock works. To address this question, Rügen et al. studied cyanoblasts grown in the laboratory. The experiments showed that cyanob bacteria that lack the RpaABC clock-controlled RpaAs the cells were unable to grow in light and darkness, but could survive in both conditions. This suggests that the circadian rhythm of the cyanobiotic cells is important for their survival. Further experiments revealed that the cells could not accumulate the carbon reserves needed for energy production during the dark periods, and that the lack of the clock prevented the cells from using these reserves to make sugar and other sugars. The cells were also unable to make the enzymes that break down sugars in the night. These findings suggest that the clock controls the activities of the enzymes involved in carbon metabolism in cyanobiotics to ensure they are active at the right time of day and at the correct timing. The next step will be to understand how the circadian system controls the activity and timing of these enzymes to ensure the cells survive the night and survive the day, and how this process works in other organisms.
Cells need to be able to cope with changes in their environment to survive. For example, the levels of metal ions in the environment can vary from low levels to very high levels, which can lead to diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer’s disease. A group of proteins called PIB-type ATPases are essential for this balance. These proteins use energy from a process called hydrolysis to transport metal ions across the cell membrane, which is made up of two compartments called cytosolic and extracellular compartments. The cytosol compartments contain a number of different types of proteins, each of which is responsible for transporting the metal ions. However, the PIB family of ATPase proteins are only found in plants, archaea, and prokaryotes, and have been shown to be virulence factors in many pathogens. The PIB proteins are also found in bacteria, but it is not clear how they are able to transport such a wide range of ions. To address this question, Osman et al. used a technique called X-ray crystallography to study the structure of a PIB protein called sCoaT from a bacterium called Sulfitobacter sp., which causes the disease menkes disease in humans. The experiments show that the structure reveals the architecture of the protein, and that it has eight distinct regions, which are not found in other PIB enzymes. The structures reveal that the P IB-type proteins are arranged in a way that allows the ions to be transported into the cytosole and out of the cell. The proteins also have a unique role in the cytotoxicity of the bacterium. The results of the experiments suggest that the proteins can be used to develop new antibiotics that can kill bacteria that are resistant to existing antibiotics. The next step will be to find out how the proteins work together and how they work together.
Genes are made up of DNA, which is made of two copies of the same DNA, one from each parent. Each copy of a gene is made from DNA that is packaged into a structure called a histone protein, which contains the instructions needed to make the protein. The histone proteins are made from a large number of different building blocks called nucleosomes, which are arranged in a structure known as a chromatin. Each nucleosome contains a number of genes, and each gene is expressed in a different way depending on its position on the histone. Some of these genes are expressed in both copies, while others are only expressed in one copy. This phenomenon is known as ‘monoallelic expression’, and it is common in mammals, including humans and mice, and is thought to be important for the development of many human diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and cancer. However, little is known about the role of monoalleles in human cells. To address this question, Nag et al. have developed a new method to detect the presence of a specific combination of histone modifications that are associated with monoallels in human and mouse cells. The experiments show that these histone marks are present in over 20% of genes that are expressed by cells, and in over 30% of the genes that have been expressed in different types of cells. This is particularly true for genes involved in the differentiation of cells into specialized types of cell, such as those that are able to divide to form new cells in the body parts. The results of the experiments suggest that monoallelle expression is important for cell division, and that it is linked to the differentiation process. The next challenge is to understand how monoallele expression affects the activity of other genes in the same cell type.
Bacteria use a protein called ClpC as a chaperone to control the activity of other proteins in their cells. The chaperones are found in many different types of bacteria and are essential for the bacteria to survive and thrive. However, they can also be harmful to the bacteria. For example, if the chaperons are not properly controlled, they may be able to trigger the breakdown of proteins. This can lead to the death of the bacteria if they do not work properly. To prevent this from happening, bacteria have evolved a way to control how they use the proteins that they make. This involves a group of proteins called adaptor proteins that can bind to specific substrates, such as proteins that are involved in the degradation of proteins, while simultaneously stimulating the chapters’ activity. The adaptor protein MecA binds to the middle domain of each chapter protein, which is located on the top of the chapers‘ ring. MecAs are found on the surface of the ring and are responsible for binding to the target proteins. However it is not clear how Mec As can switch off the chaps and turn on the other chaps. To investigate this further, Heuck et al. used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of S. aureus Clp C in the presence and absence of the adaptor. The experiments show that Mec A binds to two coiled-coil structures on the side of the Chapters ‘wings’ of the middle domains of ClpP, which are found at the tip of the protein ring. These coiled coils prevent the champs from interacting with each other. This prevents the chats from binding to each other, which prevents them from interacting. This means that the chaches are only active when Mec Atoms are present. The next step following on from this work is to understand how the coiling coils work. This could help to develop new antibiotics that can target the chapers to kill the bacteria that cause disease.
Stem cells are the cells that give rise to many different types of cells in the body. These cells can be found in many different tissues, including the skin, eyes, heart, lungs and brain. In fruit flies, for example, muscle stem cells called muscle precursors are found at the origin of all the muscles in the fruit fly. These stem cells are found in a niche that surrounds the muscles, and they are able to communicate with each other and with the surrounding muscles. However, it is not clear how these stem cells find their way to the muscle niche and how they are reactivated once they are activated. To investigate this, Figeac et al. studied the behavior of muscle stem cell precursor cells in fruit flies. The experiments show that the stem cells initially form a spherical shape with thin filopodia that make contact with neighboring muscles. The stem cells then start to send out filopodsia that connect them to the neighboring muscles, which act as a niche for the muscle precurors. The cells also produce a protein called Notch, which activates the Notch pathway, which in turn activates the insulin signaling pathway. This leads to the activation of Notch signaling, which regulates the growth of the muscle precursor cells. The next step is to find out how the muscle cells reactivate the stem cell precursor cells, and how the muscles control their reactivation. This will help scientists to understand how stem cells become reactivated in fruit fly embryos.
Neurons in the brain communicate with each other by firing electrical signals called action potentials. These signals are produced by a group of cells called the basal ganglia, which are found in the basal regions of the brain, including the substantia nigra pars reticulata, which is responsible for controlling movement and movement. The activity of these neurons is controlled by a channel called NALCN, which allows the neurons to fire at high rates without any input from other neurons. NAL CN is found in many other types of neurons, including those that control movement and respiration. However, it is not clear how NALNALCN works. To investigate this question, Lutas et al. used a technique called RNA sequencing to study the activity of individual neurons in the mouse brain. The experiments show that NalCN is essential for the spontaneous firing of the substantial nigra par reticulate neurons. This is important because the neurons need to fire in order to control movement. Further experiments showed that the neurons that do not produce NALCEN are less able to fire than neurons that produce them. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how the activity and activity of NALDNAs are regulated. This could lead to new treatments for motor disorders, such as Parkinson’s disease, which affect movement and cognition, and may also help to understand why some people with mutations in the gene that codes for NALCAN have severe motor deficits.
Antibiotics have been used to treat millions of patients since the 20th century to treat infections caused by bacteria and other microorganisms. However, as bacteria become resistant to these drugs, they become ineffective. This means that the majority of bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics are not suitable for cultivation. To find new antibiotics, scientists need to understand how bacteria grow in the laboratory and what they produce. To do this, researchers need to be able to grow bacteria in a controlled environment that mimics the environment in which the bacteria live. This is particularly important for bacteria that live in the soil, such as bacteria that grow in soil particles. To overcome this problem, Mahler et al. developed a new method to isolate and grow bacteria from soil samples. The bacteria were first isolated from the soil particles and then grown in droplets, which are small containers made of oil-like molecules that can be easily manipulated. The droplets were then incubated in a liquid medium that contained nutrients and other nutrients that are commonly found in the environment. The cells were then separated from each other by encapsulating them in the droplets. Mahler and colleagues then used a technique called ‘microfluidic’ technology to grow the bacteria in droplet-like compartments. This allowed the bacteria to grow at their own speed without competition for space or nutrients. The method also allowed the researchers to screen the bacteria for antimicrobial compounds, which is a key step in the development of new antibiotics. The results showed that the bacteria were able to produce a variety of antimicrobial molecules, including some that were not previously known to be present in the bacteria. The experiments also showed that some of these compounds were found to be produced by bacteria that were resistant to the antibiotics. This work shows that the new method can be used to study the diversity of bacteria living in soil samples, which could help scientists to discover new antibiotic compounds. The next step is to test the method on a wider range of bacteria and to see if it can be adapted to grow in other environments.
Tuberculous meningitis is the most severe form of tuberculosis, which is caused by a bacterium that causes meningeal infections. The disease is often fatal, but it can also be fatal if left untreated. The most common cause of death is a condition called leukotriene A4 hydrolase ( or LTA4H for short ), which causes the body to produce chemicals called corticosteroids. These chemicals are released by the body’s immune system to fight off infection. However, some patients with LTA 4H deficiency have too much of the enzyme, which can cause inflammation, and are more likely to die from the disease than others. This suggests that patients with too much inflammation may benefit from treatment with a drug called dexamethasone, which reduces inflammation. Previous studies in Vietnam have shown that treating patients with this drug reduces the risk of death by 30%, but this benefit was only seen in patients with the LTA-4H deficiency gene. This led to the idea that the treatment might be more effective in people with too little inflammation. Now, van Laarhoven et al. – including many of the researchers involved in the Vietnam and Indonesia studies – have analysed the results of these two studies and found that patients who had a LTA gene variant called the TT genotype had a higher risk of survival than those who did not. This effect was seen in both groups of patients, but only in those patients with a TT gene variant. This was particularly true in patients who were younger and who had more severe disease on presentation. The results of the Indonesia study showed that the TT-TT genotype was associated with a higher survival in both populations. However the TT patients in the Indonesia cohort died earlier than those in the other group. This difference was not seen in the patients with TT genotypes that did not benefit from the treatment. The findings of van Laarschurr, Fava and Schurr suggest that the beneficial effects of the TT gene variants on survival are not limited to patients with less severe disease. The next challenge is to find out whether the TT genes are also associated with survival in other diseases, such as cystic fibrosis or tuberculosis.
Neurons in the brain are made up of a network of cells called axons that are connected to each other by long fibers called axon growth cones. The axons are made of a protein called a neuron’s axon, which is made of two strands that connect together to form a long cable-like structure called a growth cone. The tip of the axon grows outwards to form the tip of a neuron, and the axons can then be guided to the right direction by a molecule called netrin-1. This molecule is found on the surface of axons, and it is thought to be responsible for guiding the growth cones in the direction in which they should go. However, it is not clear how the axonal growth cones can sense the gradients of the netrin signal and use this information to guide their growth. Now, Toriyama et al. have used a technique called microfluidic microscopy to show that a protein known as shootin1a is involved in this process. The experiments show that the shootin-1a protein is present in the axona of the forebrain of mice that lack the gene that encodes the protein. When the mice were grown in the laboratory, the axones of these mice were unable to grow properly. This was because the shootins were not able to recognize the gradient of netrin signals that were present in their environment. The shootins also had to be phosphorylated, which means that they were able to bind to a molecule known as L1-CAM, which attaches to the cell adhesion molecule. This allowed the shootons to turn in the correct direction. The results of the experiments suggest that shootin 1a is a key readout of the gradient of netrins. The next step following on from this work is to understand how shootin proteins are able to read gradients in the environment and use them to guide axons.
Hummingbirds, bats and insects use their wings to create a sound that is similar to the sound of a hummingbird’s wings beating. The sound is produced by a series of waves of aerodynamic forces generated by the flapping wings of the birds and insects. These forces generate a pressure wave that is transmitted across the air by the birds’ wings, which in turn creates a wave of pressure waves in the air. The waves of pressure generated by these wings can also be used to communicate information about the speed of flight, the location of the bird and the frequency of the wingbeat, and to alert other birds and other animals to the presence of the hummingbird. However, it is not fully understood how the wings of these animals generate their characteristic sound. Ingersoll et al. have now used a technique called acoustic nearfield holography to study the sound produced by six freely hovering Anna’sa hummingbirds. The experiments show that the hummingbirds’ sound originates from the oscillating lift and drag forces that each wing generates. This means that the sound is more pronounced when the wings are flapping at a higher frequency than when they are not flapping. The results of the experiments show how the hum of hummingbirds and other insects also depend on the strength of the aerodynamic force generated by each wing. The model developed by Ingersol et al. can also predict how the sound will be heard by other animals, such as insects and birds, and can be used as a tool to study how these animals communicate with each other. The findings of Ingersal et al ’s study could also help scientists to design more silent flying robots that are less noisy.
Proteins are made of building blocks called amino acids, which are made up of a series of building block building blocks. The sequence of amino acids in a protein can change over time, but it is not clear how these changes affect the protein’s ability to perform its specific role. Some scientists believe that evolution is driven by chance, while others believe that it is driven more by chance. The two main schools of thought in evolutionary biology are the adaptationist program and the neutral theory of molecular evolution. Both of these schools focus on either necessity or chance, which is the primary mode of causation that produces natural variation in protein sequences. However, it is still unclear how chance, contingency and necessity can influence the evolution of proteins. To answer this question, Pu et al. used a new method to study the evolution and evolution of the B-cell lymphoma-2 protein family. The BCL-2 family proteins are involved in a process called apoptosis, which causes cells to die if they are unable to perform their roles. The experiments show that chance and contingency play a major role in the evolution process, but that they are not the same. In the experiments, the evolutionary trajectories of the proteins were re-purged from the same starting point in the evolutionary history, and the evolutionary outcomes were compared between replicates from different starting points. The results showed that chance was the main cause of the evolutionary changes in the proteins. But contingency was also the main driver of the evolution, and that it was caused by the fact that many different sets of mutations could alter the proteins’ ability to bind to specific proteins. This suggests that the evolution processes that led to the proteins are not random events, but rather are the result of chance. These findings have implications for understanding how evolution works, and for understanding why certain proteins are more or less useful than others. The next step will be to understand how chance and chance interact with each other to shape the evolution.
African populations have a long history of history and evolution, and their genetic diversity is changing rapidly. The genetic diversity of the continent has changed dramatically over the last few thousand years, and the genetic makeup of many different groups has changed over time. For example, some groups of people from the same region of Africa have different genetic backgrounds, while others have different ancestors. This has led scientists to wonder whether the genetic diversity in the continent is due to the movement of people of different ethnic backgrounds into and out of the country. To answer this question, Gurdasani et al. analysed the genetic data of over 3, 000 individuals from 48 different sub-Saharan African groups. The analysis revealed that some of these groups share common ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region, such as the Akans and Namkam/Kasem from Ghana, but not with other groups from the West and East Africa regions of Africa. This suggests that the ancestors of these populations have moved back into the continent within the last 10, 000 years. The results of the analysis also show that some people from different ethnic groups have recently moved into the same area of Africa, which suggests that this process may have helped them to adapt to changes in their environment. The next step is to find out whether this process has also happened in other parts of the world, and if so, whether it has helped other groups to adapt as well.
The size of an embryo can change rapidly during development, and the size of the embryo can vary between different species. This is particularly true for the embryo of the frog Xenopus laevis, which is a species of frog that is often used as a model organism to study developmental biology. Xenopus embryos are made up of two layers of cells, each of which contains a cell nucleus and a spindle, a structure that separates the two sets of chromosomes in the embryo. The spindle is made of proteins called microtubules, which are found in the cell nucleus, and it is made from a protein called kinesin-13, which has been shown to be involved in the assembly of the spindle. However, it was not clear how the spindles of Xenopus cells are controlled to fit into the cell and how the size changes with the size. To address this question, Loughlin et al. used a technique called time-lapse fluorescence microscopy to study how the shape of the cells in Xenopus embryo extracts changes as the embryo develops. The experiments show that the shape and size of cells in embryos change as they develop, and that changes in spindle size are responsible for this change in shape. The results also show that a protein known as importin α is able to regulate spindle sizes in embryos. Importin α binds to cargo proteins in the cytoplasm of the developing embryo, and this protein is released from the cell membrane when the cell divides to form a membrane-like structure. This causes importinα to move to the membrane, where it can bind to other proteins. This allows importinalpha to be transported to the cell’s nucleus. This means that importinAlpha can be used to control the size and shape of spindle during development. The next step is to find out how the changes in cell size and spindle shape affect the size, shape and orientation of the cell. This will help to understand how the development of embryos is controlled and how these changes affect the growth and development of the animal.
Cells use genetic information to control the activity of genes to make proteins and other molecules that are essential for life on Earth. In bacteria, for example, a gene called PRPP is essential for the production of the building blocks of RNA molecules, which are essential building blocks for life. The PRPP gene encodes an enzyme that makes a molecule called purine, which in turn catalyzes a process called de novo purine synthesis. This process is controlled by a group of molecules called riboswitches, which can sense and respond to specific molecules that bind to the PRPP enzyme. Previous studies have shown that many of the riboswitch molecules that have been identified are from the RNA World, a time when the first bacteria were able to make their own RNA molecules. However, it is not clear how these molecules could have been able to do this without the help of proteins. To address this question, Nelson et al. used a technique called in-line probing to study the RNA molecules of a bacterium called Facklamia ignava, which is commonly found in the environment. The experiments show that the ribonucleic acid ( RNA ) molecules of this bacterium are made from a single molecule of guanine, and that the guanines are bound to a ribosmitter molecule called PRP, which binds to a protein called guanidine. The ribosmitters are then able to sense the presence of the PRP protein, and then switch on or off the genes that produce purines. This allows the bacteria to make more purines, even when guanidines are not present. The results of the experiments suggest that ribositters can sense two different types of molecules, and respond in different ways to each other molecule. The next step will be to find out how the two types of riboswatchers work together to control gene activity.
Neurons communicate with each other at junctions known as synapses. These junctions are made up of many different types of cells, each of which contains a different type of cell. The synapses are formed by a series of chemical messengers called neurotransmitters, which are released into the synapse by a process known as neurotransmitter release. The number of neurotransmitter-filled vesicles released from a synapse determines the strength of the communication between the two neurons. However, it is not clear how the number of vesicle released determines whether the synapses work correctly. The neurotransmitter released from the synaptic cell is thought to be the product of a number of different factors. For example, it was thought that only one neurotransmitter can be released from each synapse, but recent studies have shown that the release of multiple neurotransmitter-filled molecules can also occur. This is known as multivesicular release, and it has been suggested that the amount of neurotransmercury in the synaptic cleft, the membrane that surrounds the cell membrane, is a key factor that determines the number and type of neurotranster released. The amount of glutamate in the membrane of a synapses is also known to be a key parameter that controls the release rate of neurotransters from the cell. Neher et al. have now used a technique called electrophysiology to investigate how the release rates of neurotransmetters are controlled at synapses in the brain. The experiments show that the activity of a protein called synapsin, which is known to control the release from synapses, is regulated by a protein kinase called PKA. This kinase is involved in a process called cyclic AMP-dependent signaling, which increases the activity in the cell’s synapse. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how this kinase regulates the release levels of the neurotransmitter in the cleft. This will help us to better understand how the brain works.
Viruses are made up of genetic material called RNA molecules that are packaged into structures called virions. HIV-1 is a virus that infects the human immune system and causes AIDS. The virus is able to assemble into a virus particle that is surrounded by a membrane that surrounds the immune system. The viral RNA is packaged into the virus particle by a protein called Gag, which is found in the cell membrane. The Gag protein binds to the viral RNA and then binds to a region of the RNA called the 5’ untranslated region ( or ‘UTR’ for short ). This region contains a number of other regions that are involved in packaging the RNA into the viral particle. However, it is not clear how the Gag proteins select which regions of the viral DNA to bind to. To investigate this, Carlson, Heng et al. used a technique called confocal microscopy to study the packaging of HIV-2 RNA in a cell. The experiments show that the GAG protein can bind to the HIV RNA in the presence of an excess of other viral RNA molecules, but not to the virus itself. This means that the HIV protein can only bind to a small number of viral molecules, and only to a few of them at a given time. The results suggest that the ability of Gag to attach to viral RNA depends on how many viral molecules are present on the cell’s surface membrane. In the experiments, Gag was found to be less able to attach viral RNA to the membrane when it was bound to a molecule of non-specific RNA. This suggests that Gag is not only able to package viral RNA, but also to package it. The next step following on from this work will be to understand how Gag and the viral genome are packaged in the HIV particle.
