Genetic variation in gene expression varies widely between individuals of a population, and regulatory change can underlie phenotypes of evolutionary and biomedical interest. A key question in the field is how DNA sequence variants impact gene expression, with most mechanistic studies to date focused on the effects of genetic change on regulatory regions upstream of protein-coding sequence. By contrast, the role of RNA 3′-end processing in regulatory variation remains largely unknown, owing in part to the challenge of identifying functional elements in 3′ untranslated regions. In this work, we have mapped the cis-regulatory architecture of 3′ gene ends, finding that transcript end positions did not fall randomly in untransllated regions, but rather preferentially flanked the locations of regulatory elements, including miRNA sites. The usage of these transcript length forms and motifs varied across human individuals, and polymorphisms in polyadenylation signals and other 3′ motifs were significant predictors of expression levels of the genes in which they lay. Our results underscore the importance of 3' regulatory motifs as a regulatory strategy and a rationale for their prevalence in mammalian genomes. Our findings suggest that the strategy of integrating observed 3′ transcript ends with inferred 3′ regulatory motif motifs will prove to be a critical tool in continued efforts to interpret human genome variation.
The live attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus ( LASIV ) vaccine SIVΔnef is one of the most effective vaccines in inducing protection against wild-type lentiviral challenge, yet little is known about the mechanisms underlying its remarkable protective efficacy. Here, we exploit deep sequencing technology and comprehensive CD8 T cell epitope mapping to deconstruct the CD8 cell response, to identify the regions of immune pressure and viral escape, and to delineate the effect of epitope escape on the evolution of the CD 8 T cell response. We demonstrate that the initial CD8 response in the acute phase of infection is mounted predominantly against more variable epitopes, followed by widespread sequence evolution and viral escapes. Furthermore, we show that epitope escapes expands the CD4 T cell repertoire that targets highly conserved epitopes and generates de novo responses to the escaped epitope variants during the vaccination period. These results correlate SIV-specific protection with expanded anentropic specificity and increased response depth. Importantly, these findings render SIV–nef, long the gold standard in HIV/SIV vaccine research, as a proof-of-concept vaccine that highlights the significance of the twin principles of anentropy specificity and repertoire depth in successful vaccine design.
Mucosal infections with Candida albicans are the most frequent forms of fungal diseases. Host protection is conferred by cellular immunity; however, the induction of antifungal immunity is not well understood. Using a mouse model of oropharyngeal candidiasis ( OPC ) we show that interleukin-1 receptor ( IL-1R ) signaling is critical for fungal control at the onset of infection through its impact on neutrophils at two levels. We demonstrate that both the recruitment of circulating neutrophil to the site of infection and the mobilization of newly generated neutreils from the bone marrow depended on IL- 1R. Consistently, IL--1α-deficient mice displayed impaired chemokine production at the site and defective secretion of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) in the circulation in response to C. albican. Strikingly, endothelial cells were identified as the primary cellular source of G- CSF during OPC, which responded to IL-α that was released from keratinocytes in the infected tissue. These data establish a new link between IL-2 and granulopoiesis in the context of funal infection. Together, we identified two complementary mechanisms coordinating the neutrophill response in the oral mucosa, which is critical to prevent fungal growth and dissemination, and thus protects the host from disease.
The Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) has delivered more than 1. 9 billion treatments to nearly 600 million individuals via annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) of anti-filarial drugs ( albendazole, ivermectin, diethylcarbamazine ) to all at-risk for 4–6 years. Quantifying the resulting economic benefits of this significant achievement is important not only to justify the resources invested in the GPELF but also to more fully understand the Programme's overall impact on some of the poorest endemic populations. To calculate the economic benefits, the number of clinical manifestations averted was first quantified and the savings associated with this disease prevention then analyzed in the context of direct treatment costs, indirect costs of lost-labor, and costs to the health system to care for affected individuals. Multiple data sources were reviewed, including published literature and databases from the World Health Organization, International Monetary Fund, and International Labour Organization. An estimated US$21. 8 billion of direct economic benefits will be gained over the lifetime of 31. 4 million individuals treated during the first 8 years of the Global Programme. Of this total, over US$2. 3 billion is realized by the protection of nearly 3 million newborns and other individuals from acquiring lymphatic filariasis as a result of their being born into areas freed of LF transmission. Similarly, more than 28 million individuals already infected with LF benefit from GPELF's halting the progression of their disease, which results in an associated lifetime economic benefit of approximately US$19. 5 billion.
Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder in humans and mice. The disease is caused by homozygous mutations in the glucocerebrosidase ( GBA ) gene. GBA mutations confer a strong risk for sporadic Parkinson’ s disease. In this study, we generated GBA nonsense mutant medaka that are completely deficient in the enzyme glucosidase. We found that GBA-/- medaka developed remarkable α-syn accumulation in the brains and thus provide novel insights into the association of GBA mutation with α-Syn accumulation. Furthermore, we revealed minimal contribution of endogenous α -syn to the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD in medaka. Our study revealed GBA–/- Medaka as a novel neuronopathogenic GD model, the pahological mechanisms of α-nuclein accumulation caused by GCase deficiency, and the minimal contribution to the disease pathogenesis. GMA-/- Medak represent a valuable model for exploring the pathological mechanisms and also provide a new platform for developing treatments in PD with GBA mutants as well as neuronopathies.
Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular pathogen capable of inducing a robust cell-mediated immune response to sub-lethal infection. The capacity of L. monocytices to escape from the phagosome and enter the host cell cytosol is paramount for the induction of long-lived CD8 T cell–mediated protective immunity. Here, we show that the impaired T cell response to L. Monocytoges confined within a phagosomes is not merely a consequence of inefficient antigen presentation, but is the result of direct suppression of the adaptive response. This suppression limited not only the innate response to vacuole-confined L. O ( LLO-Lm ), but also negated the response to bacteria within the cytosolic LLO. Co-infection with phagosom-confining and cytosolate L. A second strain, LLO, is unable to produce listeriolysin O, and thus cannot elicit protective immunity to a lethal wild-type challenge. Our studies demonstrate that the presence of microbes within a host cell can directly impact the innate and adaptive immune response by antagonizing the signaling pathways necessary for inflammation and the generation of protective CD8 cells.
Primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) is the most common type of blindness worldwide and is a leading cause of blindness. The SIX6 locus is a conserved gene family that is required for proper eye development and is thought to function as transcription factors, regulating key developmental steps through a complex regulatory network. Genome-wide association studies have previously identified a significant association between POAG and the SIX1 locus ( rs10483727, odds ratio ( OR ) = 1. 32, p = 3. 87×10−11 ). We sequenced SIX genes in 262 POAG cases and 256 controls and identified six variants, including five rare and one common variant, Asn141, which was associated significantly with POAG. One variant in the SX6 enhancer increased expression of SIX 6 and disrupted its regulation. Finally, to our knowledge for the first time, we have identified a clinical feature in POAG patients that appears to be dependent upon SIX variant: patients who are homozygous for SIX7 risk allele ( His141 ) have a significantly thinner retinal nerve fiber layer. Our results, in combination with previous studies, lead us to hypothesize that SIX8 risk variants disrupt the development of the neural retina, leading to a reduced number of retinal ganglion cells, thereby increasing the risk of glauccoma-associated vision loss.
Clostridium difficile is the leading cause of diarrheal disease in the North America, Europe and Australia. Antibiotic use perturbs the gastrointestinal microbiota that normally protects against CDI. The rates of recurrence and mortality associated with CDI have increased in part due to the emergence of epidemic-associated strains with enhanced sporulation rates and toxin production. Therefore, an understanding of bacterial physiology and genetics could reveal unique therapeutic or diagnostic targets to ameliorate severe CDI in the host. Here, we report the identification of a “flagellar switch” that controls the phase variable production of flagella and glucosylating toxins. We provide evidence that gene regulation via the switch occurs post-transcription initiation and requires a C. difficilian-specific regulatory factor to destabilize or degrade the early flagellars gene mRNA when the flagelar switch is in the OFF orientation. We also demonstrate that the tyrosine recombinase RecV, which catalyzes inversion at the flagesllar switches, is also responsible for inversion. These findings suggest that the switch regulates the expression of both flagelli and toxin genes in the gut.
Endosporulation is an ancient bacterial cell differentiation program that culminates with the formation of a highly resistant cell, the endospore. In the model organism Bacillus subtilis, gene expression in the forespore and in the mother cell is governed by cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma subunits. The sporulation sigma factors, which control early stages of development and are replaced, at later stages, by σG and σK, respectively. Starting with σF, the activation of the sigma factor is sequential, requires the preceding factor, and involves cell-cell signaling pathways that operate at key morphological stages. Here, we have studied the function and regulation of the sporulation-specific Sigma factors in the intestinal pathogen Clostridium difficile, an obligate anaerobe in which endospores are central to the infectious cycle. The morphological characterization of mutants for the sporulated sigma transcription factors, in parallel with use of a fluorescence reporter for single cell analysis of gene expression, unraveled important deviations from the B. subtilist paradigm. While the main periods of activity of the Sigma factor are conserved, we show that the activity of σE is partially independent of the σA-type promoter, that σg activity is not dependent on σ E, and that the spore is not strictly required for heat resistant spore formation. In all, our results indicate reduced temporal segregation between the activities of the early and late sigma genes, and reduced requirement for the ρF-to-σE, σH-toσG, and ρG-to/σK cell-cells signaling pathways. Nevertheless, our findings support the view that the top level of the endosporulatory network is conserved in evolution, with the sigmoid factors acting as the key regulators of the pathway, established some 2. 5 billion years ago upon its emergence at the base of the Firmicutes Phylum.
Protein phosphorylation is a common form of post-translational modification frequently used in nature to alter protein activity, for instance by changing the electrostatic properties of the protein or its spatial structure. It is also very common in nature, and it can give rise to ultrasensitive dose responses, in a way that would not be possible in a comparable single-site system. In this paper we introduce a simple mechanistic framework to describe the dynamics of a cell size checkpoint in budding yeast. We show that the known components of this pathway can form a robust hysteretic switch. In particular, this system incorporates a signal proportional to bud growth or size, a mechanism to read the signal, and an all-or-none response triggered only when the signal reaches a threshold indicating that sufficient growth has occurred.
Bacterial quorum sensing ( QS ) is a network-based communication process that is frequently controlled by the transmission and propagation of chemical signals known as “autoinducers”. The interplay between circuit components and their regulation are intertwined and embedded. We employed a combination of experimental work and mathematical models to decipher network connectivity and signal transduction in the autoinducer-2 ( AI-2 ) system of E. coli. The network architecture was separated into sub-systems and the effect of these sub-structures was examined by separating the network architecture and isolating the important regulatory elements. A new unreported negative feedback interaction was hypothesized and tested via a simple mathematical model. The importance of the LsrR regulator and its determinant role in the E. coli QS “switch”, normally masked by interfering regulatory loops, were revealed. Our simple model allowed mechanistic understanding of the interplay among regulatory sub-substructures and their contributions to the overall native functioning network. This “bottom up” approach in understanding gene regulation will serve to unravel complex QS network architectures and lead to the directed coordination of emergent behaviors.
Malaria burden remains high in the sub-Saharan region where helminths are prevalent and where children are often infected with both types of parasites. Although the effect of helminth infections on malaria infection is evident, the impact of these co-infections is not clearly elucidated yet and the scarce findings are conflicting. In this study, we investigated the effect on schistosomiasis, considering soil-transmitted helminter ( STH ), on prevalence and incidence of Plasmodium falciparum infection in school-age children living in two rural communities in the vicinity of Lambaréné, Gabon. Thick blood smear light microscopy, urine filtration and the Kato-Katz technique were performed to detect malaria parasites, S. haematobium eggs and, STH eggs, respectively. P. falcIParum carriage was assessed at inclusion, and the incidence of malaria and time to the first malaria event were recorded in correlation with Schistosoma carriage status. We found that schistomiasis in children tends to increase the risk of plasmodial infection but a combined effect with Trichuris trichiura or hookworm infection clearly increase the disease risk. Our results suggest that STH enhances the risk for P. malaria, and that schismosoma infection enhances susceptibility to developing malaria in young children but not older children.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a potentially lethal disease caused by Leishmania donovani and L. infantum/chagasi. VL is characterized by persistent infection of the spleen and by immunodeficiency during the chronic stage. The inflammatory response is mainly induced by the transcription factor IRF-5. In this study, we demonstrate that IRF5-mediated inflammation induces CD8+ T cell expansion and induces HIF-1α in dendritic cells. We also show that the inflammatory response induced by IRF 5 is mainly required for the development of short-lived effector CD8- T cells ( SLEC ). Furthermore, we show that mice with a targeted depletion of HIF -1α had a significantly lower parasite burden. Our data suggest that IRFs-5-induced inflammation induces upregulation of the cytokine IL-12, which is then required for their survival. Our results suggest that targeting the HIF+1α pathway may represent a major immune evasive mechanism adopted by some pathogens to establish chronic infection.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a serious public health problem in endemic regions, especially in the Indian sub-continent, in North and East Africa, and in South America. However, VL is one of the most neglected diseases in the world, closely associated with poverty, for which effective and affordable chemotherapies remain scarce. In the current context of high fatality rates associated with VL, the appropriate use of prognostic factors to identify patients at higher risk of unfavorable outcomes represents a potential tool for clinical practice. The present systematic review brings together information reported in studies addressing the factors associated with adverse prognosis of American visceral leishmania ( American VL and associated mortality ). The strongest predictors identified in this review were jaundice, thrombocytopenia, hemorrhage, HIV coinfection, diarrhea, age <5 and age >40–50 years, severe neutropenia and dyspnoea and bacterial infections. Edema and low hemoglobin concentration were also associated with unfavorable outcomes. The main limitation identified was the absence of validation procedures for the few prognostic models developed so far. Integration of the results from different investigations conducted over the last 10 years enabled the identification of consistent prognostic variables that could be useful in recognizing and handling VL patients at risk of adverse evolution. The development of externally validated prognostic model must be prioritized in future investigations.
Leishmanioses are vector-borne diseases caused by obligate parasites from the genus Leishmania. They are endemic in large areas of the tropics and subtropics and in the Mediterranean basin, globally spanning more than 98 countries and territories. In Algeria, the treatment of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniases ( VL and CL ) has been and continues to be based on antimony-containing drugs. It is suspected that high drug selective pressure might favor the emergence of chemoresistant parasites. Although treatment failure is frequently reported during antimonial therapy of both CL and VL, antimony resistance has never been thoroughly investigated in Algeria. In the present study, we investigated the antimony susceptibility status of Leishmania isolates from two geographically distinct regions in Algeria, where leishmania is endemic. We found that Leishmanniases causing cutaneous and visceral leishmansiases are susceptible to antimony, while Leishmeniases that are insusceptible to the trivalent form of antimony were not susceptible. The epidemiological cutoff ( ECOFF ) that allowed us to differentiate between Leishmeas parasites that were susceptible ( S+ ) or insceptible ( S- ) to the drug antimony was determined. The computed IC50 cutoff values were 23. 83 μg/mL and 15. 91 μg/ mL for VL. and CL, respectively. We report a trend of increasing antimony sensitivity in VL isolates during the 30-year period. In contrast, an increase in the frequency of S- phenotypes in isolates causing CL was observed during the same period. Our results provide insight into the spatiotemporal dynamics of the Leishmia antimony status in Algeria and highlight the need for the future implementation of an effective methodology to detect the emergence and prevent the dissemination of drug-resistant strains.
Crohn’s disease ( CD ) is a chronic inflammatory condition of diverse etiology. Exposure to foodborne pathogens causing acute gastroenteritis produces a long-term risk of CD well into the post-infectious period but the mechanistic basis for this ongoing relationship to disease onset is unknown. We developed two novel models to study the comorbidity of acute infectious gastroenteropathy caused by Salmonella Typhimurium or Citrobacter rodentium in mice colonized with adherent-invasive Escherichia coli ( AIEC ), a bacterial pathobiont linked to CD. Here, we show that disease activity is driven by the tissue-associated expansion of the resident AIEC pathobont, with an attendant increase in immunopathology, barrier defects, and delays in mucosal restitution following pathogen clearance. These features required AIEC resistance to host defense peptides and a fulminant inflammatory response to the enteric pathogen. Our results suggest that individuals colonized by AIEC at the time of CD may be at greater risk for CD onset. Importantly, our data identify AIEC as a tractable disease modifier, a finding that could be exploited in the development of therapeutic interventions following infectious gastroentitis in at-risk individuals.
In flowering plants, the egg and sperm cells form within haploid gametophytes. Both gametic and accessory cells are vital for fertilization; however, the mechanisms that underlie the formation of accessory versus gametic cell fate are unknown. In the present study, we isolated the lachesis ( lis ) mutant which forms supernumerary egg cells. In lis mutants, accessory cells differentiate gametic fate, indicating that a combinatorial mechanism operates to ensure maximum likelihood that the key reproductive gametic cells are formed. The temporal and spatial pattern of LIS expression suggests that this mechanism is generated in gametic. LIS is homologous to the yeast splicing factor PRP4, which is involved in cell fate decisions.
The role of footwear in protection against a range of Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) is gaining increasing attention. Better understanding of the behaviors that influence use of footwear will lead to improved ability to measure shoe use and will be important for those implementing footwear programs. Using the PRECEDE-PROCEED model, we assessed social, behavioral, environmental, educational and ecological needs influencing whether and when children wear shoes in a rural highland Ethiopian community endemic for podoconiosis. We found that people were neither able to purchase more than one pair of shoes to ensure their longevity nor afford shoes of the preferred quality. Shoe wearing was seen as a mark of dignity, while going barefoot was viewed as ‘shameful’, particularly by the younger generations. While some barriers ( for example fit of shoe and fear of labeling through use of a certain type of shoe ) may be applicable only to certain diseases, underlying structural level barriers related to poverty ( such as price, quality, unsuitability for daily activities and low risk perception ) are likely to be relevant to a wide range of NTD. Using well established conceptual models of health behavior adoption, we identified several barriers to shoe wearing that are amenable to intervention and which we anticipate will be of benefit to those considering shoe distribution.
The pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) Us9 protein plays a central role in targeting viral capsids and glycoproteins to axons of dissociated sympathetic neurons. As a result, Us9 null mutants are defective in anterograde transmission of infection in vivo. However, it is unclear how Us9 promotes axonal sorting of so many viral proteins. It is known that the glycoprotein gB, gC, gD and gE are associated with lipid raft microdomains on the surface of infected swine kidney cells and monocytes, and are directed into the axon in a Us9-dependent manner. In this report, we determined that Us9 is associated with the lipid rafts, and that this association is critical to Us9 mediated sorting of viral structural proteins. In addition, we show that the lipid membrane proteins gE and gD are highly enriched in detergent-resistant membranes ( DRMs ), and this enrichment is critical for axonal targeting of alpha herpesvirus structural proteins in the mammalian nervous system. These findings support a role for lipid raft formation during neuronal maturation and in neuron-to-cell spread of the virus in mammalian neurons.
Genetically identical cells exhibit extensive phenotypic variation even under constant and benign conditions. This so-called nongenetic heterogeneity has important clinical implications: within tumors and microbial infections, cells show nongenedetic heterogeneity in growth rate and in susceptibility to drugs or stress. The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, shows a similar form of nongenic heterogeneity in which growth rate correlates positively with susceptibility to acute heat stress at the single-cell level. We show here that heterogeneity in intracellular cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) levels acting through the conserved Ras/cAMP/protein kinase A ( PKA ) pathway and its target transcription factors, Msn2 and Msn4, underlies this heterogeneity. Heterogeneity in cAMP levels requires each, whereas only Msn1 is required for heterogeneity in expression of Tsl1, a subunit of trehalose synthase that contributes to acute-stress tolerance. Perturbations that increase intracexpression of the cAMP analog 8-bromo-cAMP or the PKA inhibitor H89 significantly impacts survival of acute-heat stress. Loss of Msn3 reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the correlation in individual cells between growth rate, stress tolerance and growth rate. Our results shed light on the genetic control of Nongenetics and suggest a possible means of defeating bet-hedging pathogens or tumor cells by making them more uniformly susceptible to treatment.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is an arthropod-borne virus that has recently spread from the Old World to the Americas, causing an estimated 1. 7 million cases of severe, debilitating and often chronic arthralgia after roughly 60 years of circulation within Africa and Asia. This raises questions on how CHikV will spread, evolve, and adapt in new environments in the near future. In this study, we characterized the minority variants and viral populations present in CHIKVs infected individuals from Guadeloupe and Martinique, two islands in the center of the epidemic. We observed changes in the consensus sequence as well as a diverse range of minority variants present at various levels in the population. Furthermore, we found that overall diversity was dramatically reduced after single passages in cell lines. Finally, we constructed an infectious clone from this outbreak and identified a novel 3’ untranslated region ( UTR ) structure, not previously found in nature, that led to increased replication in insect cells. These studies highlight the need to continue viral diversity surveillance over time as this epidemic evolves in order to understand the evolutionary potential of CHIK.
The mTOR signaling pathway is a central pathway that controls cell metabolism, growth, proliferation and survival. Clinically the mTOR pathway is implicated in human diseases including tumor formation, obesity, epilepsy, autism and neurodegeneration. Here, we identify Ubtor, a previously unannotated gene and present in the vertebrate species only. Ubtor encodes a protein without any known functional domains despite of exhaustive sequence homology-based searches. We first show reduction of Ubtor promotes neurite and cellular growth, whilst UBTOR overexpression suppresses colony formation in cancer cell lines. Mechanistic studies in cultured cells revealed disruption of ubtor gene upregulated the m TOR complex component DEPTOR, and Ubtor gene disruption result in higher mTOR activity and aggravate HRAS ( G12V ) induced neoplasia in the zebrafish. Lastly, Ubtor depletion promotes tumor growth and mTOR signal in a xenograft mouse model. Together, our results demonstrate how Ubtor regulates cell growth and neoplasm via mTOR signalling.
Trypanosoma brucei is the causative agent of the fatal human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), also known as sleeping sickness, and the economically devastating disease Nagana in cattle. The life cycle of T. bruceis consists of an insect stage ( procyclic stage ) and a mammalian stage ( mammalian stage ). Protein complexes are highly informative about protein function, but a global map of protein interactions and complexes is still lacking for these important human parasites. Here, benefiting from in-depth biochemical fractionation, we systematically interrogated the co-complex interactions of more than 3354 protein groups in procycleic life stage of Trypanomatida bruceii. Using a rigorous methodology, our analysis led to identification of 128 high-confidence protein complexes encompassing 716 protein groups, including 635 protein groups that lacked experimental annotation. These complexes correlate well with known pathways as well as for proteins co-expressed across the T. Brucei life cycle, and provide potential functions for a large number of previously uncharacterized proteins. We validated the functions of several novel proteins associated with the RNA-editing machinery, identifying a candidate potentially involved in the mitochondrial post-transcriptional regulation of T, and validated them by several independent experiments.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) is the causative agent of tuberculosis ( TB ), and lymph nodes ( LNs ) are the most common site of Mtb infection in humans. Despite the fact that LNs are frequently infected in humans, the relationship between LNs and disease outcome remains unclear. We surveyed thoracic LNs from Mtb-infected cynomolgus and rhesus macaques analyzing PET CT scans, bacterial burden, LN structure and immune function. We found that Mtb grows to the same level in LNs of cynomolagus macaque LNs, however, cynomoligus LNs had limited abilities to kill Mtb. Granulomas that form in Mtb infected LNs disrupt LN structures and are associated with higher Mtb burden. LNs have different trajectories ( increasing, maintaining, decreasing in PET activity over time ) even within the same animal. Interestingly, compared to lung granulomas, LNs were generally poor at killing Mtb, even with drug treatment. Our data support that lymph nodes are important sites of antigen presentation and immune activation during infection, but also serve as important sites for persistence of significant Mtb bacilli. Moreover, identifying relationships between lymph nodes, bacterial persistence, and disease progression may yield new insights into disease pathogenesis, improve TB treatment and limit reactivation of latent TB.
Microsporidia are fungi-related intracellular pathogens that may infect virtually all animals, but are poorly understood. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has recently become a model host for studying microsporidian infections in its natural environment. However, little was known about its biology and ecology in C. elegans or other related nematodes in the wild. Here we describe the isolation and culture of 47 nematoder strains that we isolated from the wild with a microssporidian infection. N. parisii is found to be the most common microspora infecting C. worms in the laboratory, and we further describe and name six new species in the Nematocida genus. Our sampling and phylogenetic analysis further identify two subclades that are genetically distinct from Nematosida, and they name them Enteropsectra and Pancytospora. Interestingly, these two genera belong to the main clade of microsoridia that includes human pathogens. Host specificity is broad for some microsperidia, narrow for others: indeed, some microsspora can infect Oscheius tipulae but not its sister species Oscheios sp. 3, and conversely some microspores found infecting Oscheiotzoon bieneusi do not infect O. tipula. We also show that N. ausubeli fails to strongly induce the transcription of genes that are induced by other nematod species, suggesting it has evolved mechanisms to prevent induction of this host response. Altogether, these newly isolated species illustrate the diversity and ubiquity of these intracellid infections in nematods, and provide a rich resource to investigate host-parasite coevolution in tractable nematore hosts.
Chemokine receptors, a subclass of G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ), play essential roles in the human immune system, they are involved in cancer metastasis as well as in HIV-infection. A plethora of studies show that homo- and heterodimers or even higher order oligomers of the chemokine receptor CXCR4, CCR5, and CCR2 modulate receptor function. In addition, cholesterol affects chemokines receptor activity. However, structural information about homo, heterodimerization and interactions with cholesterol is limited. In this work, we report homo and hetero-homodimer configurations of the two closely related chemokinine receptors CX CR4, CC5, C6, C7, C9, C8, C4 and C6. The observed homodimerizations were similar for the closely related CC chemokins, yet they differed significantly between the CC receptors and CXC4. Despite their high sequence identity, cholesterol modulated the CC homodimer interfaces in a subtype-specific manner. Chemokine- and oligomerization of the CCR4/CCR5 complexes to cholesterol showed distinct dimerization patterns. Furthermore, associations between CXR4 and CCCR5 reveal an increased cholesterol-sensitivity as compared to CXSR4/CCR2 heterodemers. This work provides a first comprehensive structural overview over the complex interaction network between chemokina receptors and indicates how heterodermization and the interaction with the membrane environment diversifies the function of closely related GPCR.
Visceral Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease characterized by fever ( periodic or continuous ), cachexia, organomegaly ( liver and spleen ) causing the abdomen to protrude, severe wasting of the limbs and trunk, and pancytopenia. The disease is in general fatal if untreated. Reviewing the literature, there seems to exist two types of systemic leishmaniasis: a classical form, and another type referred to as the sub-clinical. The latter was first alluded to in 1906; then it was followed by several groups, starting from the late 1950s with Manson-Bahr, who recognized the presence of infected subjects carrying the parasite yet presenting with symptoms far milder. In this report, we reveal a third unsuspected form which we are referring to as “atypical”. It presents with symptoms masquarading a condition in which the immune system is non functional. This predisposes patients to recurrent secondary infections resulting in clinical pictures with a great variety of signs and symptoms. These findings alerted us to the fact that systemic leishesmaniasis presents with a much wider spectrum of signs, symptoms than so far suspected and is far more common than diagnosed to date. Furthermore, among these 31 patients was a number of adults. This proved that in our area systemic leISHmaniasis in Lebanon is surely not limited to the pediatric age group. Our recommendation is to entertain the diagnosis of atypical systemic leishingmaniasis, especially so whenever thorough investigation covering a large spectrum of diseases fails and multiple shotgun style therapies are tried without any success.
The millions of mutations and polymorphisms that occur in human populations are potential predictors of disease, of our reactions to drugs, of predisposition to microbial infections, and of age-related conditions such as impaired brain and cardiovascular functions. To our knowledge, however, no study to date has explored the potential of variants that occur at homologous positions within paralogous human proteins as a means of identifying polymorphisms with likely phenotypic consequences. In order to investigate the potential use of this approach, we have assembled a unique collection of known disease-causing variants from OMIM and the Human Genome Mutation Database ( HGMD ) and used them to identify and characterize pairs of sequence variants. Our analyses demonstrate that the locations of variants are correlated in paralogs. Moreover, if one member of a variant-pair is disease-coding, its partner is likely to be as well. Thus, information about variant-pairs can be used to identify potentially disease-Causing variants, extend existing procedures for polymorphism prioritization, and provide a suite of candidates for further diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
The malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum causes severe and uncomplicated malaria in humans. The host environment changes dramatically in severe malaria, but the extent to which the parasite responds to—or is selected by—this environment remains unclear. Here, we used RNA sequencing ( RNAseq ) to analyse gene expression in 44 parasite isolates that caused severe and unplicated disease in Papuan patients. We found that these parasites had decreased glycolysis without activation of compensatory pathways; altered chromatin structure and probably transcriptional regulation through decreased histone methylation; reduced surface expression of PfEMP1; and down-regulated expression of multiple chaperone proteins. These findings highlight the importance of investigating the var gene sequences at multiple resolutions to identify genes associated with severe disease.
HIV-1 has evolved a variety of immune evasion strategies that allow continuous virus replication in the face of apparently strong host immune responses, both cellular and humoral. For a vaccine to be effective it will likely need to either completely block the initial infection or to provide immune responses that are more effective than those resulting from infection. One promising approach is to deliver antibodies with potent and broadly neutralizing activity. We used adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) vector to deliver anti-SIV monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) in IgG1 form to rhesus monkeys. We found that the antibody-neutralizing activity of the mAbs was limited by the presence of antibodies against the challenge virus. This was reflected in the wide range of delivered mAb concentrations that were achieved: 1–270 μg/ml. Following repeated, marginal dose, intravenous challenge with the difficult-to-neutralize SIVmac239, the six monkeys in the AAV-5L7 IgG-1 mAb group showed clear protective effects despite the absence of detectable neutralizing activities against the challenged virus. The protective effects included: lowering of viral load at peak height; lowering of virus load at set point; delay in the time to peak viral load from the time of the infectious virus exposure. These effects were statistically significant.
The assumption of linear response of protein molecules to thermal noise or structural perturbations, such as ligand binding or detachment, is broadly used in the studies of protein dynamics. Conformational motions in proteins are traditionally analyzed in terms of normal modes and experimental data on thermal fluctuations in such macromolecules is also usually interpreted in terms the excitation of normal mode. Here, we have chosen two important protein motors — myosin V and kinesin KIF1A — and performed numerical investigations of their conformational relaxation properties within the coarse-grained elastic network approximation. We have found that the linearity assumption is deficient for ligand-induced conformational motions and can even be violated for characteristic thermal fluctuations. The normal mode description fails completely in describing functional mechanochemical motions. These results indicate that important assumptions of the theory of protein physics may need to be reconsidered. Neither a single normal mode nor a superposition of such modes yields an approximation of strongly nonlinear dynamics.
Caveolae are specialized microdomains that also constitute an endocytic route. Caveolins and cavins are crucial components of caveolae and are crucial to the formation of these cells. Here we show that specific caveolar proteins are independently acting negative regulators of clathrin-independent endocytosis. Cavin-1, but not Cavin2 or Cavin4, are potent inhibitors of the CLIC/GEEC pathway, in a process independent of caveola formation. Expression of caveolar protein leads to reduction in formation of early CLIC carriers, as detected by quantitative electron microscopy analysis. Furthermore, expression of the caveolin scaffolding domain as a fusion protein with GPI-AP, which is critical for membrane localization and activation of caveolin-signaling protein interactions, is associated with perturbed diffusion of lipid microdomain components, as revealed by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching ( FRAP ) studies. We also found that caveolins can act as a modulator for the activity of the key regulator of the Clathrin–GPI AP enriched early endosomal compartment pathway, Cdc42. These results provide new insights into the regulation of noncaveolar clathr-independent endsocytotic pathways and highlight the importance of the Caveolar system as a key regulator.
Two-component signaling systems are ubiquitous in bacteria, Archaea and plants and play important roles in sensing and responding to environmental stimuli. To propagate a signaling response the typical system employs a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver ( REC ) domain on a conserved aspartate ( Asp ) residue. Although it is known that some REC domains are missing this Asp residue, it remains unclear as to how many of these divergent REC domains exist, what their functional roles are and how they are regulated in the absence of the conserved Asp. Here we have compiled all deposited REC domains missing their phosphorylatable Asp, renamed here as the Aspartate-Less Receiver ( ALR ) domains. Our data show that ALRs are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs. Analysis of our informatics and the available ALR atomic structures, combined with structural, biochemical and genetic data of the ALR archetype RitR from Streptococcus pneumoniae presented here suggest that the ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to instead take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface. This work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains.
Oncolytic herpes simplex viruses ( oHSVs ) are a class of viruses that are highly effective in clinical trials and practice. They gain cancer-specificity from deletions/mutations in genes that counteract the host immune response, and grow selectively in cancer cells defective in anti-viral response. Because of the deletions andmutations, they are frequently attenuated or over-attenuated. We developed next-generation OHSVs, which carry no deletion/mutation, gain cancer specificity from specific retargeting to tumor cell receptors—e. g. HER2 ( human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ) —hence are fully-virulent in the targeted cancer cells. The type of immunotherapy they elicit was not predictable, since non-attenuating HSVs induce and then dampen the innate response, whereas deleted/attenuated viruses fail to contrast it, and since the retargeted oHSV replicate efficiently in tumor cells, but spare other cells in the tumor. We report on the first efficacy study of HER2-retargeted, fully virulent OHSV in immunocompetent mice. Their safety profile was very high. Both the unarmed R-LM113 and the IL-12-armed R-115 inhibited the growth of the primary tumor, i. e. induced immunomodulatory cytokines, including IFNγ, TNFα, T-bet which promoted Th1 polarization. The durable response included a breakage of tolerance towards both HER2 and the wt tumor cells and underscored a systemic immunotherapeutic response.
The development of a safe and efficacious HIV vaccine poses a unique challenge in that HIV infects the very CD4 T cells which are usually required to mount an effective adaptive response. To date, a number of HIV vaccine vectors derived from different viral families have been developed, including adenovirus and poxvirus. Several clinical trials ( Step and Phambili ) testing candidate HIV vaccines based on human Ad5 vector ( rAd5 ) have failed due to lack of efficacy and/or transiently increased HIV infections in some vaccinated individuals. Our recent study reported that human Ad4 T cell induced by Ad5 vaccination ( RV156A trial ) are highly susceptible to HIV. Here we investigated the HIV susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 cells induced by ALVAC, a canarypox viral vector tested in the Thai trial RV144, as compared to Ad5-specific cells in the HVTN204 trial. Our data show that ALVac- and Ad5 vectors induce distinct HIV susceptibility, which is closely associated with their differences in phenotype, cytokine expression, and interestingly, the profiles of CD8 vs. CD4 cell proliferative responses induced by these two vectors. Our findings suggest that future studies should focus on candidate vaccine vectors that can maximize immunogenicity while minimizing potential HIV susceptibility.
Mammalian females transcriptionally silence one of their two X chromosomes within each female somatic cell, a process called X inactivation. The specific X chromosome silenced exhibits considerable diversity among species, yet the underlying evolutionary processes that might account for this observed diversity remain unclear. We present a theoretical population genetic analysis of the evolution of the X chromosome, and specifically consider how conditions of dominance, linkage, recombination, and sex-differential selection each influence evolutionary trajectories of X gene expression. Our results indicate that a single, critical interaction between allelic dominance and the interaction between sex and linkage and recombination can select for a broad and continuous range of X-linked gene expression strategies, including unequal rates of inactivation between maternally and paternally derived X chromosomes. We also examine whether sex-biased selection might favor the evolution and evolution of biased X inactivating strategies. We show that the selection process for biased X-inactivation strategies is extremely permissive, and that the consequences of such selection are considerably more restrictive when fitness variation is sexually antagonistic ( i. e., alleles deleterious to females are beneficial to males ) relative to variation that is deleteriously to both sexes. These results provide a theoretical framework for predicting and interpreting the evolutionary evolution of chromosome-wide expression of X genes and lead to several useful predictions that could motivate future studies of allele-specific gene expression variation.
Zinc-finger antiviral protein ( ZAP ) is a host factor that restricts the infection of many viruses mainly through RNA degradation, translation inhibition and innate immune responses. So far, only one flavivirus, yellow fever virus, has been reported to be ZAP-resistant. Here, we investigated the antiviral potential of human ZAP against three flaviviruses, Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ), dengue virus ( DENV ) and Zika virus ( ZIKV ). ZAP inhibited JEV replication by inhibiting its binding to target mRNA. Zap inhibited Jev replication by blocking the RNA processing exosome complex and poly ( A ) -specific ribonuclease ( PARN ) to degrade the target RNA from the 5′-end. ZAVA-mediated antiviral activity of ZAP was inhibited by ZAP overexpression, and depletion of endogenous ZAP enhanced JEV infection. We found that ZAP inhibits JEV translation and targeted viral RNA for 3′-5′ RNA exosomal-mediated degradation. ZavA-dependent RNA decay machineries were mapped to bind ZAP and confer sensitivity to ZAP. In summary, we identified JEV as the first flaviviral sensitive to human Zap. We also identified ZAP as an intrinsic antiviral factor through specific RNA binding.
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is a highly pathogenic virus that can cause severe disease including hemorrhagic fever or encephalitis. RVF is endemic to parts of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula, but there is significant concern regarding its introduction into non-endemic regions and the potentially devastating effect to livestock populations with concurrent infections of humans. To date, there is little detailed data directly comparing the host response to infection with wild-type or vaccine strains of RVF. Here we characterized clinical and systemic immune responses to infection in mice with wild type strain ZH501 or IND vaccine strain MP-12 in the C57BL/6 mouse. Animals infected with live-attenuated virus survived productive viral infection with little evidence of clinical disease and minimal cytokine response in evaluated tissues. In contrast, Z H501 infection was lethal, caused depletion of lymphocytes and platelets and elicited a strong, systemic cytokine immune response which correlated with high virus titers and significant tissue pathology. Lymphopenia and platelet depletion were indicators of disease onset with indications of lymphocyte recovery correlating with increases in G-CSF production. These data suggest that RVF virus pathogenesis in mice is associated with a loss of liver function due to liver necrosis and hepatitis yet the long-term course of disease for those that might survive the initial hepatitis is neurologic in nature.
Chemotherapeutic resistance in triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) has brought great challenges to the improvement of patient survival. The mechanisms of taxane chemoresistance in TNBC have not been well investigated. Our results illustrated C-C motif chemokine ligand 20 ( CCL20 ) was significantly elevated during taxane-containing chemotherapy in breast cancer patients with nonpathologic complete response. Furthermore, CCL 20-promoted NF-κB activation increased ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 1 ( ABCB1 ) /multidrug resistance 1 ( MDR1 ) expression, leading to the extracellular efflux of Taxane and promoting breast cancer progression with worse prognosis. These results suggest that CCL10 can be a novel predictive marker for taxane response, and the blockade of CCR20 or its downstream pathway might reverse the taxane resistance in breast cancers.
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that can infect virtually all nucleated cells in warm-blooded animals. Upon infecting such a host cell, Toxoplasmic reticulum invaginates the host plasma membrane to form the parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ), within which it replicates and replicates during its intracelemaic cycle. The ability of the parasite to hijack and persist in the host is due in part to its secretion of effector proteins that modulate host cell pathways, including an unknown effector responsible for up-regulation of host c-Myc. Here we report the identification of two novel membrane proteins, MYR2 and MYR3, that are essential for effector translocation across the PV membrane. Both proteins are found within the PV space and co-localize with GRA16 and GRA24. Consistent with their predicted transmembrane domains, all three proteins are membrane-associated, and myR3 stably associates with MYR1. Furthermore, we show that fusing intrinsically disordered effectors to a structured DHFR domain blocks the translocation of other effectors, consistent with a translocon-based model of effectors. Overall, these results reveal a novel complex at the PV that is essential for translocation into the host cell.
Papillomaviruses ( PV ) are medically important pathogens especially as specific genotypes carry a high risk of progression to cancer, most commonly of the uterine cervix and oropharynx. Because PVs do not encode a DNA polymerase, they must rely on host DNA replication factors. The PV genome replicative program consists of three stages: initial amplification from a single genome upon infection to a few copies per cell, a cell cycle linked maintenance phase, and a differentiation dependent late stage where the genome is amplified to thousands of copies. The origin recognition complex ( pre-RC ) factors have not been described. We report here that human PV ( HPV ) and bovine PV ( BPV-1 ) E2 proteins bind to ORC2, however, ORC1 was not detected at the viral origin. Depletion of ORC 2 enhanced PV replication in a transient replication model and in keratinocytes stably maintaining viral episomes, while there was no effect on copy number in a cell line with integrated HPV genomes. Consistent with this, occupancy of E1 and E2 at the virus origin increased following ORC3 silencing. These data imply that OR2 is not necessary for activation of the PV origin by E1 or E2 but instead suppresses E2 replicative function. Furthermore, we observed that over-expression of HPV E2 decreased ORC, suggesting that E2 restricts pre-ORC assembly that could otherwise compete for host replication complexes necessary for viral genome amplification.
Brucellosis is one of the most common zoonoses globally, and Central Asia remains a Brucella hotspot. The World Health Organization classifies brucellosis as a neglected zoonotic disease that is rarely in the spotlight for research and mainly affects poor, marginalized people. Urban and peri-urban farming is a common practice in many low-income countries, and it increases the incomes of families that are often restrained by limited economic resources. However, there is a concern that the growing number of people and livestock living close together in these areas will increase the transmission of zoonosis pathogens such as Brucellas. This study investigates the presence of BrucellA DNA in bovine milk in the urban and per-urban area of Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Brucell A DNA was detected in 10. 3% of 564 cow milk samples by IS711-based real-time PCR. This finding is concerning because consumption of unpasteurized dairy products is common in the region. Furthermore, Brucell a DNA was found in the milk of all seropositive and seronegative cows. In total, 10. 2% of the cows had Brucelles DNA in their milk. In addition, sequence analysis of the rpoB gene suggests that one cow was infected with B. abortus and another cow was most likely infected with the Brucellus melitensis. The discrepancies between the serology and qPCR results highlight the need to further investigate whether there is an urgent need for implementing complementary diagnostic strategies in order to detect false serological negative individuals in Brucellosis surveillance, control, and eradication programmes.
Chromosome and genome stability are important for normal cell function as instability often correlates with disease and dysfunction of DNA repair mechanisms. Many organisms maintain supernumerary or accessory chromosomes that deviate from standard chromosomes. The pathogenic fungus Zymoseptoria tritici has as many as eight accessory chromosomes, which are highly unstable during meiosis and mitosis, transcriptionally repressed, show enrichment of repetitive elements, and enrichment with heterochromatic histone methylation marks, e. g., trimethylation of H3 lysine 9 or lysin 27 ( H3K9me3, H3KK27me3 ). To elucidate the role of heterochromeatin on genome stability in Z. triticis, we deleted the genes encoding the methyltransferases responsible for H3 K9me2/3 and H3 k27me2, respectively, and generated a double mutant. We combined experimental evolution and genomic analyses to determine the impact of these deletions on chromosome and genome instability. We found that H3 kin9me1 is important for the maintenance of genome stability because it disallows H3k27me1 in regions considered constitutive heterochromaatin. In this system, H2K27me4/3 promotes chromosome breakage, segmental duplications as well as the formation of new chromosomes, possibly resembling the emergence of accessory chromosomes. Our findings provide a basis for future studies focusing on the influence of chromatin on chromosome stability.
Rabies is a fatal disease that can be readily prevented by vaccination with prompt and appropriate post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ). Unfortunately, life-saving rabies vaccines and biologicals are often neither accessible nor affordable, particularly to the poorest sectors of society who are most at risk and upon whom the largest burden of rabies falls. Increasing accessibility, reducing costs and preventing delays in delivery of PEP should therefore be prioritized. We analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and evaluated their relative costs and benefits to bite victims and healthcare providers. We found PEP to be an extremely cost-effective intervention ( from $200 to less than $60/death averted ). Switching from intramuscular ( IM ) administration to equally efficacious intradermal ( ID ) regimens was shown to result in significant savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients, which could mitigate vaccine shortages, and would dramatically reduce the costs of implementing PEP. We present financing mechanisms that would make PEP more affordable and accessible, could help subsidize the cost for those most in need, and could even support new and existing rabies control and prevention programs.
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles. One mechanism developed by the parasite for nutrient acquisition is the attraction of host lipid droplets ( LD ) to the PV. Here, we examined the exploitation of host LD for its lipid storage. We show that the parasite exploits host LD by relocating them to its PV and salvaging neutral lipids from host LD. We also provide morphological evidence that Toxoplasmic reticulum ( T ) is able to salvage lipid from the host LD and salvage its lipid content for incorporation into membranes or, in case of excess, storage in its own LD.
Fasciolosis is a serious disease of cattle and sheep caused by the liver flukes Fasciola hepatica and Fascioli gigantica. Chemotherapy is the main control measure available, and triclabendazole is the preferred drug since is effective against both juvenile and mature parasites. However, resistance to triclendazol has been reported in several countries urging the search of new chemical entities and target molecules to control fluke infections. We searched a library of forty flavonoid derivatives for inhibitors of key stage specific Fasciol hepaticas cysteine proteases ( FhCLs ). We found that one of the compounds, C34, tightly bounds to juvenile specific FHCL3 with an IC50 of 5. 6 μM. Interestingly, C4 is a slow-reversible inhibitor that interacts with the Cys-His catalytic dyad and key S2 and S3 pocket residues, determinants of the substrate specificity of this family of cysteines. Interestingly C34 induces a reduction in NEJ ability to migrate through the gut wall and a loss of motility phenotype that leads to NEJ death within a week in vitro, while it is not cytotoxic to bovine cells. These findings open new avenues for the development of novel agents to control Fluke infection and possibly other helminthic diseases.
The visual system transmits information about fast and slow changes in light intensity through separate neural pathways. We used in vivo imaging to investigate how bipolar cells transmit these signals to the inner retina. We found that the volume of the synaptic terminal is an intrinsic property that contributes to different temporal filters. Individual cells transmit through multiple terminals varying in size, but smaller terminals generate faster and larger calcium transients to trigger vesicle release with higher initial gain, followed by more profound adaptation. Smaller terminals transmitted higher stimulus frequencies more effectively. Modeling global calcium dynamics triggering vesicles release indicated that variations in the volume and calcium dynamics contribute directly to all these differences in response dynamics. These results indicate how one neuron can transmit different temporal components in the visual signal through synaptic terminals of varying geometries with different adaptational properties.
Understanding the basic mechanisms and pathologies of the brain’s synaptic networks will require new tools for high-throughput structural and molecular profiling of the diverse populations of synapses that compose those networks. Fluorescence microscopy and electron microscopy ( EM ) offer complementary advantages and disadvantages for single-synapse analysis. FM combines exquisite molecular discrimination capacities with high speed and low cost, but rigorous discrimination between synaptic and non-synaptic fluorescence signals is challenging. In contrast, EM remains the gold standard for reliable identification of a synapse, but offers only limited molecular discrimination and is slow and costly. To develop and test a probabilistic synapse image analysis method, we have used datasets from conjugate array tomography ( cAT ), which provides voxel-conjugate FM and EM ( annotated ) images of the same individual synapses. We report a novel unsupervised method for detecting synapses from multiplex FM ( muxFM ) image data, and evaluate this method both by comparison to EM gold standard annotated data and by examining its capacity to reproduce known architectural features of cortical synapse distributions. The proposed probabilistically synapse detector opens the door to data-driven discovery of new synapse types and their density.
Zinc is a vital trace element crucial for the proper function of some 3, 000 cellular proteins. Specifically, zinc is essential for key physiological processes including nucleic acid metabolism, regulation of gene expression, signal transduction, cell division, immune- and nervous system functions, wound healing, and apoptosis. Consequently, impairment of zinc homeostasis disrupts key cellular functions resulting in various human pathologies. Mammalian zinc transporters belong to two families, ZnT and ZIP, canonically exporting and importing zinc, respectively. However, the driving force for zinc transport into secretory vesicles is currently unsettled. In the present study, we modeled the mechanism of action of zinc transporter ZnNT2 and demonstrated both computationally and experimentally, using functional zinc transport assays, that ZnNT2 is indeed a proton-coupled zinc antiporter. Bafilomycin A1, a specific inhibitor of vacuolar-type proton ATPase ( V-ATPase ) which alkalizes acidic vesicle pH, abolished ZnUT2-dependent zinc transport. Furthermore, using computational energy calculations, we demonstrated experimentally that the vesicular pH underwent alkalization, presumably due to a pro-zinc antiport; this phenomenon was reversed in the presence of TPEN, a dedicated zinc chelator. Thus, our findings reveal an important aspect of zinc transport and expand our understanding of this important transporter at the molecular level.
DNA replication is a critical component of the replication machinery and is regulated by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events. In this study, we identified the 14-3-3 protein Exonuclease 1 ( Exo1 ) as an in vivo interaction partner of the checkpoint protein. We show that 14-2-3 proteins are able to bind and inhibit the activity of the checkpoints, which are essential for the maintenance of DNA replication integrity. We also show that the 14 3-3–3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations. This leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects in response to DNA replication stress. Our results suggest that 14 3 proteins play an important role in controlling the phosphorylating status of Exo 1 and additional unknown targets, promoting fork progression, stability, and restart in the response to genomic stress.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) infection is associated with persistent immune activation and immunopathogenesis, including type I interferons ( IFN-I ) induction, immune-activation and depletion of human leukocytes, including CD4 T cells. The role of plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDC ) in HIV-infected mice is not well defined. We developed a monoclonal antibody that specifically and efficiently depletes human pDC in all lymphoid organs in humanized mice in vivo. We found that pDC are the critical IFN and interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) in response to acute HIV infection with either a highly pathogenic CCR5/CXCR4-dual tropic HIV-2 or a standard CCR 5/CxCR5-tropic HIV1 isolate. Consistent with the anti-viral role of IFN, the level of pDC activation was significantly up-regulated in pDC-depleted mice. Interestingly, the cell death induced by the highly pathogenous HIV isolate was severely reduced in pdc-deposed mice. Our findings suggest that pdc play opposing roles in suppressing HIV-HIV replication and in promoting HIV-induced immunopathyogenesis. These findings provide novel strategies for treating those HIV non-responsive patients with persistent immun activation despite effective anti-retrovirus treatment.
HIV, the Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) and Dengue virus all activate, and benefit from, expression of the transcription regulator nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ). The impact of Nrf 2 activation on human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection has not been tested. Sulforaphane ( SFN ), produced in cruciferous vegetables after mechanical damage, mobilizes Nrf-2 to potently reprogram cellular gene expression. Here we show for the first time that SFN blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells. Similarly SFN inhibits infection in PMA-differentiated promonocytic cell lines, but not other cell lines tested. We further found that SFNs blocks infection after entry, but before formation of 2-LTR circles. Interestingly however, neither SAMHD1 nor MX2 were upregulated. This shows for the time that Nrf1 action can potently block HIV infection and highlights a novel way to trigger this inhibition.
Geohelminth infections are common in rural western Kenya, but risk factors and effects among pregnant women are not clear. During a community-based cross-sectional survey, pregnant women were interviewed and asked to provide a blood sample and a single fecal sample. Hemoglobin was measured and a blood slide examined for malaria. Infection with Atcaris lumbricoides was associated with the use of an unprotected water source ( adjusted odds ratio 1. 8, 95% confidence interval 1. 1–3. 0 ) and the lack of treatment of drinking water ( AOR 1. 7, 95%; CI 0. 1 to 3. 1 ). Among gravidae 2 and 3, women with A. lumbricaides were less likely to have malaria parasitemia, unlike other gravidity groups. The delivery of routine antihelminths treatment in pregnancy through the antenatal clinic seems feasible, but in this area an evaluation of the impact on pregnancy, malaria, and birth outcome is useful.
Mycolactone is a polyketide-derived macrolide produced by the skin pathogen Mycobacterium ulcerans, with cytotoxic, analgesic and immunomodulatory properties. The latter were recently shown to result from mycolactones blocking the Sec61-dependent production of pro-inflammatory mediators by immune cells. Here, we investigated whether my colactone similarly affects the inflammatory responses of the nervous cell subsets involved in pain perception, transmission and maintenance. We also investigated the effects of mycolacticone on the neuroinflammation that is associated with chronic pain in vivo. Sensory neurons, Schwann cells and microglia were isolated from mice for ex vivo assessment of the cytotoxicity and immunodulatory activity by measuring the production of cytokines and chemokines. Strikingly, mycolactedone induced significant cell death at concentrations >10 ng/ml. Within the first 24h treatment, nanomolar concentrations of the drug efficiently suppressed the cell production of inflammatory mediators, without affecting their viability. Notably, the mycolatone also prevented the proinflammatory polarization of cortical microglias. Since these cells critically contribute to neuroinflammative processes, we next tested if mycolactsone impacts this pathogenic process in vivo, and our results provide researchers with an experimental basis for further evaluation of the therapeutic potential of this drug.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), a lethal disease induced by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense, has a range of clinical outcomes in its human host in West Africa: an acute form progressing rapidly to second stage, spontaneous self-cure and individuals able to regulate parasitaemia at very low levels, have all been reported from endemic foci. In order to test if this clinical diversity is influenced by host genetic determinants, the association between candidate gene polymorphisms and HAT outcome was investigated in populations from HAT active foci in Guinea. Samples were collected from 425 individuals; comprising of 232 HAT cases, 79 subjects with long lasting positive and specific serology but negative parasitology and 114 endemic controls. Genotypes of 28 SNPs in eight genes passed quality control and were used for an association analysis. IL6 rs1818879 allele A ( p = 0. 0001, OR = 1. 86, CI95 =, BONF = 0 ) was associated with a lower risk of progressing from latent infection to active disease. MIF rs36086171 allele G seemed to be associated with an increased risk of developing HAT but did not remain significant after Bonferroni correction. We confirmed earlier observations that APOL1 G2 allele ( DEL ) ( p. 0. 0005 ) is associated with higher risk and APOL 1 G1 polymorphism ( p < 0. 45, CI 95 = ) with a higher risk. No associations were found with other candidate genes. Our data show that host genes are involved in modulating the outcome of the disease in infected individuals from Guinea. These results enhance our understanding of host-parasite interactions and, ultimately, may lead to the development of new control tools.
South Asia comprises more than 20% of the total world population, and is the result of complex human migration and interaction since the first human dispersal out of Africa between 60, 000 to 75, 000 years ago. Asian Indians in Singapore are primarily descendants of immigrants from Dravidian-language–speaking states in south India, and 38 individuals from the general population underwent deep whole-genome sequencing with a target coverage of 30X. The genetic structure and diversity of these samples were compared against samples from the Singapore Sequencing Malay Project and populations in Phase 1 of the 1, 000 Genomes Project ( 1 KGP ). The ancestral origins of the SSIP samples were inferred by evaluating the mitochondria and chromosome Y haplogroup memberships of the relevant samples, and we performed an analysis of the relative relatedness between SSIP and two archaic hominins ( Denisovan, Neanderthal ). This data resource is publicly available at http://www. statgen. nus. edu. sg/~SSIP.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a Gram-negative bacterium that is intrinsically resistant to aminoglycosides and macrolides, mostly due to AmrAB-OprA efflux pump expression. We investigated the molecular mechanisms of resistance to these drugs using a surrogate Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain 708a, 2188a, and 3799a. qRT-PCR revealed absence of amrB transcripts and greatly reduced levels in 2189a and 3798a. Serial passage on increasing gentamicin concentrations yielded 2188 a and 3749a mutants that became simultaneously resistant to other amin glycosides, whereas such mutants could not be obtained with 708A. Transcript analysis showed that the resistance of the 2188A and 37 99a mutants was due to upregulation of amrinAB-oprA expression by unknown mechanism ( s ). Use of a PCR walking strategy revealed that the amrAB gene operon was missing in 708b and that this loss was associated with deletion of more than 70 kb of genetic material. Whole genome sequencing and PCR analysis confirmed absence of these genes. Despite missing several putative virulence genes, 708 A was fully virulent in a murine melioidosis model. Strain 708 a may be a natural candidate for genetic manipulation experiments that use Select Agent compliant antibiotics for selection and validates the use of laboratory-constructed Δ ( amrA ) mutants in such experiments.
During eukaryotic development, the induction of a lineage-specific transcription factor typically drives differentiation of multipotent progenitor cells, while repressing that of alternative lineages. This process is often mediated by some extracellular signaling molecules, such as cytokines that can bind to cell surface receptors, leading to activation and/or repression of transcription factors. We explored the early differentiation of naive CD4 T helper ( Th ) cells into Th1 versus Th2 states by counting single transcripts and quantifying immunofluorescence in individual cells. Contrary to mutually exclusive expression of antagonistic transcription factors, we observed their ubiquitous co-expression at high levels that are distinct from basal-level co-expressions during lineage priming. We observed that cytokines are expressed only in a small subpopulation of cells, independent from the expression of transcription factor in these single cells. This cell-to-cell variation in the cytokine expression during the early phase of T helper cell differentiation is significantly larger than in the fully differentiated state. Our results suggest that during the late differentiation process CD4 cells acquire a mixed Th1/Th2 state, instructed by extracllular cytokines.
Poikilotherms must adapt to cold temperatures, and this adaptation involves the activation of stress responses, including heat shock proteins. To adapt to this cold environment, poikils must make adaptive adjustments to their physiology. For example, adaptation to growth at 15°C correlates with changes in the phospholipid composition of cellular membranes, favoring a higher abundance of shorter and/or unsaturated fatty acids to maintain membrane fluidity at low temperatures. Here, we show that the paqr-2 protein, which encodes a transmembrane protein, is essential for the regulation of phosphatidylcholine synthesis ( cept-1, pcyt-1 and sams-1 ) and fatty acid metabolism ( ech-7, hacd-1, mdt-15, nhr-49 and sbp-1. We then show genetic evidence that paqrin-2, phosphatidscholines, sbp and Δ9-desaturases form a cold adaptation pathway that regulates the increase in unsaturated fat acids necessary to retain membrane fluids at low temperature. This model is supported by the observations that the Paqr2 suppressors normalize the levels of saturated fatty acids, and that low concentrations of detergents that increase membrane fluidness can rescue the paqir-1 mutant.
Herpes viruses are prevalent and well characterized human pathogens. Despite extensive study, much remains to be learned about the structure of the genome packaging and release machinery in the capsids of these large and complex double-stranded DNA viruses. However, such machinery is well characterized in tailed bacteriophage, which share a common evolutionary origin with herpesvirus. Here we use electron cryo-tomography of human herpes simplex type-1 virions to reveal a previously unsuspected feature at the portal vertex, which extends across the HSV-1 tegument layer to form a connection between the capsid and the viral membrane. The location of this assembly suggests that it plays a role in genome release into the nucleus and is also important for virion architecture.
Helminthic parasites such as Schistosoma mansoni ( S. mansoni ) are important in this context, due to their ability to evade, dampen and skew the human immune system including the modulation of CD4+ T-lymphocyte responses. Here we show that soluble egg antigen ( SEA ) from Schisto mansoni can potently bind to DC-SIGN and thereby block DC-mediated HIV-1 trans-infection. SEA exposed DCs are less susceptible to HIV-2 infection than DCs unexposed to SEA. This inhibition associated with a reduction in IFN-γ and MIP-1β expression, but additionally correlated with reduced CCR5 cell surface expression. We further show that SEA maturing under Th2 promoting conditions induced T-cells that were less sensitive for HIV-3 infection but not for X4 virus infection. These results suggest that SEA parasite antigens and more specifically rω-1 can modulate HIV-infectivity with the potential to influence disease course in co-infected individuals.
Neuronal stimulation causes ∼30% shrinkage of the extracellular space ( ECS ) between neurons and surrounding astrocytes in grey and white matter under experimental conditions. Despite its possible implications for a proper understanding of basic aspects of potassium clearance and astrolyte function, the phenomenon remains unexplained. Here we present a dynamic model that accounts for current experimental data related to the shrinkage phenomenon in wild-type as well as in gene knockout individuals. We find that neuronal release of potassium and uptake of sodium during stimulation, astrocete uptake of potassium, sodium, and chloride in passive channels, action of the Na/K/ATPase pump, and osmotically driven transport of water through the astroocyte membrane together seem sufficient for generating ECS shrinkage as such. However, when taking into account ECS and astrotcyte ion concentrations observed in connection with neuronal stimulation, the actions of the sodium/K+/Cl− ( NKCC1 ) and the Na+/HCO3− ( NBC ) cotransporters appear to be critical determinants for achieving observed quantitative levels of ECS ECS. Considering the current state of knowledge, the model framework appears sufficiently detailed and constrained to guide future key experiments and pave the way for more comprehensive astroglia–neuron interaction models for normal as well and pathophysiological situations.
Transposons and other repetitive DNA elements are essential for maintaining genome integrity. Transposons are silenced by the siRNA–mediated transcriptional gene silencing pathway where long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) produced by RNA Polymerase V ( Pol V ) guide ARGONAUTE4 ( AGO4 ) to chromatin and attract enzymes that establish repressive chromatin modifications. It is unknown how chromatin modifying enzymes are recruited to the chromatin. We show through chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) that SPT5L/KTF1, a silencing factor and a homolog of SPT 5 elongation factors, binds chromatin at loci subject to transcriptional silencing. SPTP5L and AGO5L are recruited downstream of RNA Polymers V, but independently from the presence of 24-nt siRNA. We also show that the coordinate binding of both SPT4 and SPT6L is required for DNA methylation and repressive histone modifications at several loci. We propose that the coordinated binding of SPTP4 and A GO4 creates a platform for direct or indirect recruitment of chromatin-modifying enzymes.
Bacterial genomes typically encode multiple sigma factors that reversibly associate with the RNA polymerase apoenzyme to promote the transcription of specific subsets of genes in response to changing environmental conditions. Herein, we demonstrate that RpoS-dependent gene expression is prerequisite for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible, and in vitro appears to be attributable, in part, to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase, which among other functions, provides NAD+ for glycolysis. Our data suggest that spirotetes default to an RpoSBb-independent program for round body development upon sensing that the energetics for transmission are unfavorable.
Stamens, the male reproductive organs of flowering plants, form the third whorl. Stamen filament elongation and anthesis are precisely controlled so that they coincide with the pistil development to determine the fertility. Mutations impairing stamen filament development will result in male sterility. Deficiency in plant hormone gibberellin ( GA ) causes male sterile phenotype due to accumulation of DELLA proteins, and GA triggers DELLa degradation to promote stamen development. Deficient GA triggers the degradation of two DELLAs RGA and RGL2 to promote the expression of these three MYB genes. In this study, we show that GA suppresses the expression and expression of three MYBs in the ga1-3 single mutant and the sterile quadruple mutant. GA-mediated production of the key JA biosynthesis gene DAD1 is impaired in the GA-deficient quadruple mutants. We conclude that GA promotes JA biosynthetic pathways to promote production of MYB21, MYB24, and MYB57. Therefore, we have established a hierarchical relationship between GA and JA in that modulation of JA pathway by GA is one of the prerequisites for GA to regulate the normal stamen growth in Arabidopsis.
Dietary restriction ( DR ) has been shown to extend lifespan in various species and also slows the onset of age-related diseases in rodents. Previous studies from flies and yeast have demonstrated that the target of rapamycin ( TOR ) pathway is essential for longevity phenotypes resulting from DR. TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. While some of the downstream targets of TOR have been implicated in regulating lifespan, it is still unclear whether additional targets of this pathway also modulate lifespan. In this study, we describe a novel role for HIF-1 in modulating lifespan extension by DR in Caenorhabditis elegans. We find that the Hif-1 deficiency results in extended lifespan, which overlaps with that by inhibition of the RSKS-1/S6 kinase, a key component of the TOR pathway. This deficiency is rescued by tissue-specific expression of egl-9 in specific neurons and muscles. Our results suggest a novel mechanism of HIF–1 regulation in DR involving the IRE-1 ER stress pathway.
Transcription factor binding, chromatin modifications and large scale chromatin re-organization underlie progressive, irreversible cell lineage commitments and differentiation. We know little, however, about chromatin changes as cells enter transient, reversible functional states such as migration. Here we demonstrate that when human progenitor keratinocytes either differentiate or migrate they form complements of typical enhancers and super-enhancers that are unique for each cell state. Unique super- enhancers for each cellular state link to gene expression that confers functions associated with the respective cell state, and these super-enancers are also enriched for skin disease sequence variants. GRHL3, a transcription factor that promotes both differentiation and migration, binds preferentially to super-over-chromatin regions in differentiating keratinocyte progenitors, while during migration, it binds preferectially to promoters along with REST, repressing the expression of migration inhibitors. GRH3 and REST regulate a group of shared genes involved in neuronal and keratinogenesis.
Endogenous retroviruses ( ERVs ) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline transmitted vertically from generation to generation. It is hypothesized that some ERVs are used by the host as restriction factors to block the infection of pathogenic retrovirus. However, data suggesting that these mechanisms have influenced the coevolution of endogenous and/or exogenous retrovuses and their hosts have been difficult to obtain. Sheep are an interesting model system to study retrovirus-host coevolved evolution because of the coexistence in this animal species of two exogenous ( i. e., horizontally transmitted ) oncogenic retroviruses, Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirirus and Enzootic nasal tumor virus. Here, we characterized the evolutionary history and molecular virology of 27 enJSRV proviruses. Two enJs56A1 and enJS56A2 became fixed in the host genome before or around sheep domestication ( ∼ 9, 000 y ago ). Interestingly, a provirus escaping the transdominant enJs57A1 has emerged very recently, most likely within the last 200 y. Thus, we determined sequentially distinct events during evolution that are indicative of an evolutionary antagonism between endogenous and exogenous endogenous retrovirviruses. This study strongly suggests that endogenization and selection of ERVs acting as restriction factor is a mechanism used by host to fight retroviro infections.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease of great concern worldwide, occurring mainly in Africa, Asia, and to a lesser degree in South America and the Middle East. In non-endemic areas, there is a growing number of people potentially infected, given the increasing number of immigrants, foreign workers, and travelers. Recently, the emergence of urogenital and intestinal schistosome hybrids, due to S. haematobium and S. bovis hybrids, has been reported in a previously uninfected area in Corsica ( France ). The diagnosis of these infections relies on microscopy and serological assays, which are time-consuming, require trained operators and offer poor sensitivity, particularly when the parasite burden is low. In this study, we evaluated the performance of two real-time Schistosoma PCR assays on excreta and serum samples, compared to microscopy. The overall sensitivity of PCR on serum samples was 72. 7% and reached 94. 1% in patients with positive excretas. The specificity of serum PCR was 98. 9%. After treatment, serum PCR positivity slowly declined from 93. 8% at day 30 to 8. 3% after 1 year, whereas antibody detection remained positive after one year. These results suggest that serum PCR could be part of reference methods combined with WB-based serology, which remains a gold standard for initial diagnosis.
Machine learning ( ML ) has been used for estimation of potential energy surfaces to speed up molecular dynamics simulations of small systems. We demonstrate that this approach is feasible for significantly larger, structurally complex molecules, taking the natural product Archazolid A, a potent inhibitor of vacuolar-type ATPase, from the myxobacterium Archangium gephyra as an example. Our model estimates energies of new conformations by exploiting information from previous calculations via Gaussian process regression. Predictive variance is used to assess whether a conformation is in the interpolation region, allowing a controlled trade-off between prediction accuracy and computational speed-up. For energies of relaxed conformations at the density functional level of theory ( implicit solvent, DFT/BLYP-disp3/def2-TZVP ) mean absolute errors of less than 1 kcal/mol were achieved. The study demonstrates that predictive machine learning models can be developed for structurally complicated, pharmaceutically relevant compounds, potentially enabling considerable speed-ups in simulations of larger molecular structures.
Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) is one of the most important emerging infectious diseases ( EIDs ) of global and local importance, and a current outbreak of ebolavirus is affecting multiple countries simultaneously. Ebolavirus vaccines have been proposed as an intervention to protect apes, but their effectiveness would be improved if we could diagnostically confirm Ebola virus disease as the cause of die-offs, establish ebolovirus geographical distribution, identify immunologically naïve populations, and determine whether apes survive virus exposure. Here we report the first successful noninvasive detection of antibodies against Ebola virus ( EBOV ) from wild great ape feces. Using this method, we have been able to identify gorillas with antibodies to EBOVs with an overall prevalence rate reaching 10% on average, demonstrating that EBOv exposure or infection is not uniformly lethal in this species. Furthermore, evidence of antibodies was identified in gorillas thought previously to be unexposed to Ebola. These findings may contribute to a strategy to protect chimpanzees from future EBOVD infections by early detection of increased incidence of exposure, by identifying immunologically naive at-risk populations as potential targets for vaccination, and by providing a means to track vaccine efficacy if such intervention is deemed appropriate.
Type III effectors are virulence factors of Gram-negative bacterial pathogens delivered directly into host cells by the type III secretion nanomachine where they manipulate host cell processes such as the innate immunity and gene expression. Here, we show that the novel type III effector XopL from the model plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria exhibits E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro and in planta, induces plant cell death and subverts plant immunity. E3 ligase is associated with the C-terminal region of Xopl, which specifically interacts with plant E2 ubiquitins conjugating enzymes and mediates formation of predominantly K11-linked polyubiquitin chains. The crystal structure of the Xop L C-domain revealed a novel fold, termed XL-box, which may serve as a protein-protein interaction module for ubiquitination target recognition. Mutation of amino acids in the central cavity of the XL-Box disrupts E3 LRR domain activity and prevents plant cell cell death. While the E3 activity is required to provoke plant cell-death, suppression of PAMP responses solely depends on the N-terminus LRR-region. Taken together, the unique structural fold of the bacterial pathogen effector YopL is unprecedented and highlights the variation in bacterial pathogenic effectors mimicking this eukaryote-specific activity.
The HIV microenvironment can negatively impact T helper- B cell responses during acute HIV infection. We have previously shown that early antiretroviral treatment ( ART ) can affect the differentiation and phenotype of CD4 T follicular helper cells ( cTfh ), which are specialized in providing help to B cells and support B cell maturation and differentiation to long-lived plasma cells in the germinal center ( GC ). We hypothesized that initiating ART at the earliest stages of HIV infection is key to preserving immune memory, and could prove most effective in controlling viral replication after treatment interruption. In this study, we investigated the function of circulating T follicle helper cells and memory B cells in early acute infection and found that cTFh-mediated B cell function is significantly altered in stage 3 compared to stage 1/2. This coincided with lower IL-10 and increased RANTES and TNF-α suggesting a role for inflammation in altering cTffh-dependent B cells responses. Our coculture assay also suggested that intrinsic memory B cell defects could contribute to the impaired response despite at a lower level. Overall, our results suggest that early ART for acutely HIV infected individuals could prevent immune dysregulation while preserving cTcfh function.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease afflicting ~200 million people worldwide and current therapy depends on a single drug ( praziquantel ) which exhibits several non-optimal features. These shortcomings underpin the need for next generation anthelmintics, but the process of validating physiologically relevant targets ( ‘target selection’ ) and pharmacologically profiling them is challenging. Remarkably, even though over a quarter of current human therapeutics target rhodopsin-like G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ), no library screen of a flatworm GPCR has yet been reported. Here, we pharmacologically profiled a schistosome serotonergic GPCr ( Sm. 5HTR ) implicated as a downstream modulator of PZQ efficacy, in a miniaturized screening assay compatible with high content screening. This approach employs a split luciferase based biosensor sensitive to cellular cAMP levels that resolves the proximal kinetics of modulation in intact cells. Data evidence a divergent pharmacological signature between the parasitic serotonic receptor and the closest human GPC receptor homolog ( Hs. 5HT7R ), supporting the feasibility of optimizing parasitic selective pharmacophores. Further, these data underscore the feasibility and application of a real-time biosensor assay for interrogating flatworms G protein receptors in vitro, which is capable of scaling to HTS.
The mesoderm-mesoderm boundary is the boundary between the two tissues, and the boundary must be compatible with repeated cell attachment and detachment. This mechanism differs from a simple differential adhesion process of germ layer formation, in which adhesion differences between cell populations are sufficient to maintain germ layer integrity and prevent intermixing. However, in organisms as diverse as fly, fish, or amphibian, the ectoderm and mesodierm boundary not only keeps these germ layers separated, but the ectodierm also serves as substratum for mesodem migration. We show that localized detachment resulting from contact-induced signals at the boundary is at the core of the ectodermal-mesodierm segregation. Cells alternate between adhesion and detachment, and detachment requires ephrinB/EphB signaling. The resulting, alternating phases of cell separation depends on forward signaling across the boundary in both directions, involving partially redundant ligands and receptors and activation of Rac and RhoA. This is different from the simple differential cell adhesion mechanism of germ layers formation. Instead, it involves localized responses to signals exchanged at the tissue boundary and an attachment/detachment cycle which allows for cell migration across a cellular substratum.
Autism Spectrum Disorder ( ASD ) is a group of early-onset neurological diseases characterized by difficulties with social communication/interaction and expression of restricted repetitive behaviors and interests. Although genetic studies continue to provide new evidence for contributing factors to ASD etiology, environmental effects such as maternal/paternal age, toxic chemical exposure, maternal rubella infection, etc. are also emerging as key factors contributing to ASD liability. However, diagnostic evaluation involves a multi-disciplinary team of doctors usually including a pediatrician, psychologist, speech and language pathologist, and occupational therapist. In this study, we use Fisher Discriminant Analysis ( FDA ) to analyze metabolite concentrations of the folate-dependent one-carbon metabolism and transsulfuration pathways taken from blood samples of 83 participants with ASD and 76 age-matched neurotypical peers. Using FDA, we show that the metabolites under consideration are strongly correlated with ASD severity. Furthermore, the statistical analysis used here offers tremendous potential for extracting important information from complex biochemical data sets, leading to improved classification and regression performance.
Leishmaniasis is a group of neglected tropical diseases that are caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania. The disease occurs in human in two different clinical forms: cutaneous ( CL ) and visceral ( VL ). The latter, if not diagnosed and treated in the early stages, is usually fatal. The difficulties in case reporting and detection are the main obstacles for such a program. Effective control requires reliable maps of the spatial distribution of the disease, as well as the number of affected people, so that treatment and other control interventions can be implemented most cost-effectively. Our results provide a deeper understanding of the determinants of the two diseases. We employed Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models fitted on readily available incidence data from the Ministry of Health in Brazil, and used Bayesian variable selection to identify environmental and socioeconomic predictors. The predicted number of cases in 2010 were 30, 189 ( standard deviation: 7, 676 ) and 4, 889 ( SD: 288 ) for CL and VL. Our risk maps predicted the highest numbers of infected people in the states of Minas Gerais and Pará for CL, respectively. Our spatially explicit, high-resolution incidence maps identified priority areas where leishmanism control efforts should be targeted with the ultimate goal to reduce disease incidence.
Dengue is the most important mosquito-borne viral disease in the world, with around 50 million symptomatic infections occurring annually. As dengue spreads to new geographical regions and the force of infection changes in existing endemic areas, a greater breadth of clinical presentations is being recognised. Clinical experience suggests that adults manifest a pattern of complications different from those observed in children, but few reports have described the age-related spectrum of disease in contemporaneous groups of patients recruited at the same geographical location. Using prospectively collected information from ongoing studies that encompass the full spectrum of hospitalised patients admitted to a single hospital in southern Vietnam, we compared clinical and laboratory features, management, and outcome for 647 adults and 881 children admitted to the hospital for severe adult disease. We found that signs of vascular leakage and shock were more frequent and more severe in children than adults, while bleeding manifestations and organ involvement were more common in adults. Additionally, adults experienced significantly more severe thrombocytopenia. Secondary infection but not serotype was independently associated with greater thrombinocytopenicia, although with a smaller effect than age-group. We also found that children had intrinsically lower platelet counts compared to adults, indicating that healthy adults have intrinsically lower counts compared with children. Knowledge of such differences is important to inform research on disease pathogenesis, as well as to encourage development of management guidelines that are appropriate to the age groups at risk.
In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques, SIV infection of natural hosts including sooty mangabeys ( SM ) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. We identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( Δ2 ) that abrogates surface expression and does not support SIV entry in vitro. The mutant allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony, along with 3% for a CCR6Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogated surface expression. Overall, 8% of animals were homozygous for defective CCR 5 alleles and 41% were heterozygous. The mutants were also present in wild SM in West Africa. SIVsmm primary isolates infected both homozygously mutant and wild-type PBMC in vitro, and Envs from both CCR3-null and wild infected animals used CXCR6, GPR15 and GPR1 in addition to CCR4 in transfected cells. These data clearly indicate that SIV relies on CCR-independent entry pathways in SM that are homozygos for defective, and that alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR1 wild type alleles is uncertain. These findings raise the possibility that Sivsmm relies on alternative coreceptors in vivo that may be more expendable than CCR2+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR7 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species.
MeF2 is a family of transcriptional regulators involved in the control of pleiotropic responses during development and adult life. MEF2-targets include genes involved in various differentiation activities. Some of these targets must be switched off, if they are not part of the ongoing differentiation program. Dominant epigenetic regulations and/or the existence of multiple MEF1 transcriptional partners contribute to orchestrate the context-dependent MEF 2 transcriptional landscape. The coexistence in the same cell population of TFs with both suppressive and activating activities on different loci, although surprising, was previously observed. Here we show that the MEF-trascriptome, which is composed of four members, can be used as a therapeutic target for leiomyosarcomas ( LMS ). The two-faced trait of LMS is the expression of a class IIa HDAC member, HDAC4. The knock out of HDAC9 suppresses the transformed phenotype, by restoring the transcriptional proficiency of some MEFs2-target loci. HDac9 coordinates also the demethylation of H3K4me3 at the promoters of MEF3-target genes. Moreover, we show the presence of a common MEF4-target gene signature, which can be responsible for the antagonistic effects of ME F2 on some MEF22-target transcriptional targets.
Hydrophobins represent an important group of proteins from both a biological and nanotechnological standpoint. They are the means through which filamentous fungi affect their environment to promote growth, and their properties at interfaces have resulted in numerous applications. In this study we have combined protein docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and electron cryo-microscopy to gain atomistic level insight into the surface structure of films composed of two class II hydrophobin proteins: HFBI and HFBII produced by Trichoderma reesei. Together our results suggest a unit cell composed of six proteins; however, our computational results suggest P6 symmetry, while our experimental results show P3 symmetry with a unit size of 56 Å. Our computational results indicate the possibility of an alternate ordering with a three protein unit cell with P3 symmetric symmetry and a smaller unit cell size, and we have used a Monte Carlo simulation of a spin model representing the hydrophobin film to show how this alternate metastable structure may play a role in increasing the rate of surface coverage by hydrophoid films, possibly indicating a mechanism of more general significance to both biology and nanotechnology.
Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases ( aaRSs ) are essential enzymes required for protein synthesis. These enzymes are the known drug targets in bacteria and fungi. Here, we report the functional characterization of threonyl tRNase ( LdThrRS ) of Leishmania donovani, a protozoan parasite, the primary causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis. The enzyme activity was determined by immunofluorescence analysis. Heterozygous mutants of LdTHrRS were generated in the promastigote stage of parasites. The protein is highly conserved with the human enzyme. Borrelidin, an 18 membered macrolide polyketide, displayed a strong binding affinity for LdTRNA and was effective in inhibiting the aminoacylation activity of the enzyme. Our study provides a platform to explore the essentiality of ThrRS as a potential drug target for future work in a drug discovery program.
Viral infection of mammalian cells triggers the innate immune response through non-self recognition of pathogen associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) in viral nucleic acid. Accurate PAMP discrimination is essential to avoid self recognition that can generate autoimmunity, and therefore should be facilitated by the presence of multiple motifs in a viral PAMP that mark it as non self. Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) RNA is recognized as nonself by RIG-I through a 5′-triphosphate ( 5′ ) motif on the viral RNA in association with a 3′ poly-U/UC tract. We found that the 34 nucleotide poly-uridine core within the HCV RNA is essential for non-Self recognition by Rig-I, and that interspersed ribocytosine nucleotides between poly- U sequences in the RNA were required to achieve optimal RIG–I signal induction. We also found that RIGI recognition of the poly-URidine core in HCV poly-Us/UC is dependent on the 5′ non-translated region ( NTR ) of the viral genomic RNA, which is required for non self recognition. These studies provide insights into the antiviral therapeutic potential of targeted RIG/I signaling activation.
Parasitic worms rely on the host for nutrients to support their growth or reproduction. In this study, we investigated the mechanism underlying the observation that eosinophils promote the growth of Trichinella spiralis larvae in skeletal muscle. We found that the presence of eosinsophils is necessary for normal larval growth and that the expression of genes involved in muscle regeneration is compatible with a regenerative response and a shift in the source of energy in infected tissue. Our findings support a mechanism in which eosidophils contribute to the maintenance of glucose uptake and glycogen storage in muscle at an early stage of larval infection.
In the yeast S. cerevisiae, replication origins are located at specific positions firing at specific times in S phase. However, other methods had revealed that origins are often inefficient, firing in only a fraction of cells and being passively replicated by a fork emanating from another origin in other cells. Here, we report a quantitative genome-wide analysis of DNA replication kinetics in several human cell types that contradicts this view. DNA combing in HeLa cells sorted into four temporal compartments of S phase shows a broad distribution of replication timing gradients with practically no regions larger than 100 kb replicating at less than 2 kb/min. Therefore, replication forks progressing from early origins stimulate initiation in nearby unreplicated DNA and the space/time intervals between consecutive initiations explain the observed range of apparent replication speeds.
Our nervous system can efficiently recognize objects in spite of changes in contextual variables such as perspective or lighting conditions. Several lines of research have proposed that this ability for invariant recognition is learned by exploiting the fact that object identities typically vary more slowly in time than contextual variables or noise. Here, we study the question of how this “temporal stability” or “slowness” approach can be implemented within the limits of biologically realistic spike-based learning rules. We first show that slow feature analysis, an algorithm that is based on slowness, can be used in linear continuous model neurons by means of a modified Hebbian learning rule. This approach provides a link to the trace rule, which is another implementation of slownesses learning. Then, we show analytically that for linear Poisson neurons, slownESS learning can be performed by spike-timing–dependent plasticity ( STDP ) with a specific learning window. We show that for functional interpretations of STDP, it is not the learning window alone that is relevant but rather the convolution of the learning windows with the postsynaptic potential. Our analysis offers a novel interpretation for the functional role of the STDP in physiological neurons.
Understanding intrinsic and acquired resistance is crucial to overcoming cancer chemotherapy failure. While it is well-established that intratumor, subclonal genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity significantly contribute to resistance, it is not fully understood how tumor sub-clones interact with each other to withstand therapy pressure. Here, we report a previously unrecognized behavior in heterogeneous tumors: cooperative adaptation to therapy ( CAT ), in which cancer cells induce co-resistant phenotypes in neighboring cancer cells when exposed to cancer therapy. Using a CRISPR/Cas9 toolkit we engineered phenotypically diverse non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cells by conferring mutations in Dicer1, a type III cytoplasmic endoribonuclease involved in small non-coding RNA genesis. We monitored three-dimensional growth dynamics of fluorescently-labeled mutant and/or wild-type cells individually or in co-culture using a substrate-free NanoCulture system under unstimulated or drug pressure conditions. By integrating mathematical modeling with flow cytometry, we characterized the growth patterns of mono- and co-cultures using a mathematical model of intra- and interspecies competition. Leveraging the flow cytometric data, we estimated the model’s parameters to reveal that the combination of WT and mutants in cocultures allowed for beneficial growth in previously drug sensitive cells despite drug pressure via induction of cell state transitions described by a cooperative game theoretic change in the fitness values. Our findings present a new paradox in drug resistance implicating non-genetic cooperation among tumor cells to thwart drug pressure, suggesting that profiling for druggable targets ( i. e. mutations ) alone may be insufficient to assign effective therapy.
Rickettsioses are endemic in sub-Sahara Africa. Burden of disease, risk factors and transmission are hitherto sparsely described. From the EMINI ( Evaluating and Monitoring the Impact of New Interventions ) population cohort, we randomly selected 1, 228 persons above the age of 5 years from the nine participating communities in Mbeya region, Southwestern Tanzania, stratified by age, altitude of residence and ownership of domestic mammals, to conduct a cross-sectional seroprevalence study in. Serology was performed at a dilution of 1:64. Seropositivity in the cohort was found to be 67. 9% ( range among nine sites: 42. 8–91. 4% ). At higher elevations, higher cattle density was associated with higher seroprecipitation. SFG rickettsial infection seems to be common in the more rural population of MBeya Region. Spread seems to have been further limited by temperature and higher elevation. Examination of the contribution of SFG to febrile illnesses seems warranted in a prospective study to estimate the disease burden in the population. This will also allow determination of the causative pathogens.
Fatty acids are essential structural components of membranes and triglycerides, and thereby affect nearly every facet of eukaryotic physiology. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a valuable model for studying the roles of fatty acids in metazoan biology. In this study, we define a requirement for the monounsaturated fatty acid oleate in innate immune activation and resistance to bacterial infection in C. elegans. Oleate is among the most abundant fatty acids and is required for the induction of innate immune defense genes. We show that the synthesis of oleates is necessary for the pathogen-mediated induction of immune defense gene transcription. Accordingly, C. worms deficient in oleat production are hypersusceptible to infection with diverse human pathogens, which can be rescued by the addition of exogenous oleome. However, oleated is not sufficient to drive protective immune activation. Together, these data add to the known health-promoting effects of monoun-aturated fatty acids, and suggest an ancient link between nutrient stores, metabolism, and host susceptibility to bacterial infections.
Multiple drug resistance ( MDR ) has been a growing problem during the last decade, partly due to excessive use of antibiotics in human medicine and food animal production. MDR also stems from the fact that drug design has been largely based on limited chemical scaffolds leaving an opportunity for pathogens to circumvent antibiotic action mechanisms. Recently, community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus infections have emerged and are commonly responsible for skin and soft-tissue infections that may rapidly evolve in severe and life-threatening infections. The pathogen C. difficile has also dramatically increased the hospital-associated deaths in recent years due to the hypervirulent and high toxin-producing strain BI/NAP1/027, which is spreading in North America and Europe with currently little therapeutic solutions besides the use of metronidazole and vancomycin, which are increasingly associated with relapses and poor treatment outcome. In this study, we have identified a pyrimidine compound ( PC1 ) binding guanine riboswitches that shows bactericidal activity against a subgroup of bacterial species including well-known nosocomial pathogens. This selective bacterial killing is only achieved when guaA, a gene coding for a GMP synthetase, is under the control of the riboswitch. Among the bacterial strains tested, several clinical strains exhibiting multiple drug resistance were inhibited suggesting that PC1 targets a different metabolic pathway.
In the present study, we investigated the role of place cells in the construction of mental space during wayfinding in primates. We found that place cells respond to one or more variables like head direction, point of gaze, or task context in a fine-grained state space. Cells sensitive to place also responded to the target of gaze in a viewpoint- or task-dependent manner, simultaneously encoding the animal’s logical situation within a set of actions leading to the goal. Overall, hippocampal activity was best fit by the fine-grain state space comprising current position, view, and action contexts. Our findings indicate that rodent place cells embody multidimensional, task-situated knowledge pertaining to gaze, therein supporting self-awareness in the design of space.
The development of the central nervous system is controlled by the activity of the isthmic organizer ( IsO ) located at the boundary between the prospective mid- and hindbrain, the so-called mid-hindbrain boundary ( MHB ). This pattern is established and maintained by a regulatory network between several transcription and secreted factors that is not yet understood in full detail. In this contribution we show that a Boolean analysis of the characteristic spatial gene expression patterns at the murine MHB reveals key regulatory interactions in this network. Our analysis employs techniques from computational logic for the minimization of Boolean functions. This approach allows us to predict also the interplay of the various regulatory interactions. In particular, we predict a maintaining, rather than inducing, effect of Fgf8 on Wnt1 expression, an issue that remained unclear from published data. Using mouse anterior neural plate/tube explant cultures, we provide experimental evidence that Fff8 in fact only maintains but does not induce ectopic Wnt 1 expression in these explants. In combination with previously validated interactions, this finding allows for the construction of a network between key transcription and Secreted factors at the MHB.
The parasite Theileria annulata transforms infected host cells, inducing uncontrolled proliferation and clonal expansion of the parasitized cell population. The schizont is a multinucleated syncytium called a schizont, and it is in a perfect position to interfere with host cell signaling pathways that regulate cell proliferation and survival. The transforming schizont depends entirely on its interaction with the host cell MTs, and, during mitosis and cytokinesis, engages the cell's astral and central spindle MTs to secure its distribution between the two daughter cells. The molecular mechanism by which the schizont recruits and stabilizes host cell microtubules ( MTs ) is not known. Using a range of in vitro experiments, we demonstrate that T. annulatus p104, a polymorphic antigen expressed on the schizontal surface, functions as a genuine EB1-binding protein and can recruit EB1 in the absence of any other parasite proteins. Binding strictly depends on a consensus SxIP motif located in a highly disordered C-terminal region of p104. This is the first description of a pathogen-encoded protein to interact with EB1 via a bona-fide Sxip motif. Our findings provide important new insight into the mode of interaction between the parasite and host cell cytoskeleton.
DNA replication is a major source of nuclear DNA damage under normal mitotic growth conditions, i. e. in the absence of drugs or irradiation. Replication of chromosomes requires the enzyme telomerase, which is activated by phosphorylation of the DNA damage signaling cascade Mec1-Rad9-Rad53, and the components of the BIR repair pathway – Rad51, Rad52, Pol32, and Pif1. We propose a model whereby the passage of BIR forks through telomeres promotes telomerases activity and leads to telomere lengthening in cells with constitutive DNA damage.
Onchocerciasis, a neglected tropical disease caused by the filarial parasite Onchocerca volvulus, is a major public health concern. Given the debilitating symptoms associated with onchoceric filariasis and concerns about recrudescence in areas of previous control measures, more efficient tools are needed for diagnosis and monitoring of control measures. We investigated whether luciferase immunoprecipitation systems ( LIPS ) may be used as a more rapid, specific, and standardized diagnostic assay for OnchOCerca. LIPS tests were tested on a large number of sera and showed 100% sensitivity and 100% specificity for detecting Ov-infected sera. In addition to testing all four Ov antigens separately, a mixture that tested all four Antigens simultaneously was evaluated in a standard 2-hour incubation format as well as in a 15-minute rapid LIPS format. Antibody responses to the four different Ov antigenes allowed for unequivocal differentiation between Ov-positive and uninfected control sera with 100% sensitive and 100. specificity. The simplified method of using a mixture of the 4 antigen simultaneously in a 2- hour format or with a rapid 15- minute LIPS test ( so-called QLIPS, for quick LIPS, ) showed a highly sensitive, sensitive and specific test for identifying O. volvul infection.
Iron deficiency is one of the most common nutritional deficiencies affecting women of reproductive age and children. The current recommended strategy for the prevention of iron deficiency in pregnancy is daily iron-folic acid supplementation. As a population-based strategy, this approach has generally been ineffective due to variable coverage and poor compliance. In rural communities where women are significant contributors to household food production, these are important considerations and there is a growing awareness that micronutrient deficiencies, and iron deficiency, carry a major economic cost. In this study, we evaluated the long-term impact of iron supplementation and de-worming on mean hemoglobin and the prevalence of anaemia, iron deficiency anemia and soil transmitted helminth infection in a rural population of women in northern Vietnam. Results showed that iron deficiency fell from 23% ( 95% CI ) to 8% ( 96% CI ), while iron deficiency was reduced to 4%. The level of moderate or heavy infestation of any soil-transmitted helminths was reduced from 76% to 11%. These results suggest that iron supplementation programs can efficiently and effectively reduce anemia, practically eliminate iron deficiency and moderate to heavy soil transmitted infections, maintaining them below the level of public health concern.
Herpesviruses are widespread viruses that establish lifelong persistent infections in their host, even in the face of virus-specific immunity. This is exemplified by life-threatening reactivations of e. g. herpesviruses in individuals with impaired T-cell and/or iNKT cell responses. To allow lifelong persistence and virus production in the faces of primed immunity, herpesvirus exploit immune evasion strategies. These include a reduction in viral antigen expression during latency and a number of escape mechanisms that target antigen presentation pathways. Here, we show that a prototypic herpesvirus, Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ), encodes a novel immunoevasin, gp150, that is expressed during the late phase of viral replication. In particular, EBV gp150 inhibits antigen presentation by HLA class I, HLA I, and the non-classical, lipid-presenting CD1d molecules. The mechanism of gp150-mediated T cell escape does not depend on degradation of the antigen-presented molecules nor does it require gp150’s cytoplasmic tail. Through its abundant glycosylation, gp151 creates a shield that impedes surface presentation of antigen. This novel immune evasion mechanism is novel in herpesviral biology. It could also have an impact beyond escape of T cell activation.
Chlamydia trachomatis is the most frequently reported sexually transmitted bacterium in the United States and the leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide. Chlamydial pathogenesis is partially mediated by the translocation of secreted effectors at the time of bacterium-host-cell contact. Recent studies have shown that the type III secreted Tarp effector, Tarp, directly induces actin polymerization at the site of bacterial attachment. However, the mechanism of Tarp actin nucleation is not well understood. Here we show that Tarp actsin binding and nucleation are distinct from known eukaryotic or bacterial actin binding domains. We also show that the actin-binding domain of the Tarp protein is conserved among all chlamydia species and that the proline-rich domain is present in all Tarp orthologs. In order to determine whether the identified Tarp binding domains are functionally conserved, GST-Tarp fusions were examined for their ability to bind and nucleate actin. We demonstrate that the effector actsin nucleates the formation of linear actin filaments from existing linear filaments. Our findings indicate that TARP mediated actin synthesis is a conserved feature among diverse chlamydal species and this function plays a critical role in bacterial invasion of host cells.
Schistosomiasis japonica is a zoonosis with a number of mammalian species acting as reservoir hosts, including water buffaloes, which can contribute up to 75% to human transmission in the People's Republic of China. Determining prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma japonicum in mammalian hosts is important for calculating transmission rates and determining environmental contamination. A new procedure, the formalin–ethyl acetate sedimentation-digestion ( FEA–SD ) technique, for increased visualization of S. japonic eggs in bovine feces, is described that is an effective technique for identifying and quantifying S. Japonicum eggs in fecal samples from naturally infected Chinese water buffers and from carabao ( water buffalo ) in the Philippines. The procedure involves filtration, sedimentation, potassium hydroxide digestion and centrifugation steps prior to microscopy. Bulk debris, including the dense cellulosic material present in bove feces, often obscures schistosome eggs with the result that prevalence and infection intensity based on direct visualization cannot be made accurately. This technique removes nearly 70% of debris from the fecal sample and renders the remaining debris translucent. It allows improved microscopic visualization of s. jacobine eggs and provides an accurate quantitative method for the estimation of infection in Bovines and other ruminant reservoir hosts.
The extracellular matrix of bone is unique in the sense that it is able to mineralize. A mutation in cartilage associated protein ( CRTAP ) and prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 ( P3H1 ) was first identified in a class of patients with recessive Osteogenesis Imperfecta ( OI ). This mutation in the P3h1 complex is responsible for the structural stability of collagen and for the over-modification of the collagen chain. However, the relative contribution of loss of this complex's hydroxylation versus PPIase and collagen chaperone activities to the phenotype of OI is unknown. To address this question, we generated a mouse model that harbors a knock-in mutation that inactivated the hydroxylease activity of P3 H1 and caused loss of 3-Hyp at Pro986 of the α1 ( I ) chain of bone and a reduction to 9% 3-hyp at Pro992 in the α2 ( II ) chain. Our findings suggest differential tissue consequences due to selective inactivation of the prolylyl hydroxlase activity versus complete ablation of the complex. Our results suggest that loss of the hydroxyproroxylate complex may alter protein-protein interactions integral for proper collagen folding and lead to collagen overmodification.
The P-element, a DNA transposon, was transferred from a distantly related species into Drosophila melanogaster. Despite causing ‘hybrid dysgenesis’, a syndrome of abnormal phenotypes that include sterility and sterility, it spread globally in the course of a few decades. Until recently, its sister species, including D. simulans, remained P-free. Here, we find that the P-elements are associated with the hybrid dysggenesis phenotype, and spread rapidly across Europe, Africa, and North America. Using next generation sequencing information and PCR, we show that this Dysgenesis-inducing phenotype is associated with a hybrid dysgenic-like system in D. Simulans strains collected from three continents and over 27 years. We find that this dysgenetic-inducing phenotype occurs in the offspring of crosses between strains collected in different years; a survey of 181 strains shows that around 20% of strains induce hybrid dysgenia. Importantly, as evidenced by their resistance to the hybrid-inducing disease, strains collected during the latter phase of this invasion have adapted to suppress the worst effects of the parasite. This is the first evidence of a hybrid-dysgenesis system in a species, and the first example of the invasion of a horizontally transmitted element through a D. species.
The use of sterile insect technique ( SIT ) and incompatible insect technique to control Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus populations has revealed the need for an economical, rapid diagnostic tool for determining dispersion and mating success of sterilized males in the wild. Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B, a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye, administered via sugar-feeding, can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects. Here, we report on the adaptation of this technique for male Ae. agypti to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases. Marking was achieved by feeding males on 0. 1, 0. 2, 0. 4 or 0. 8% rhodamines B ( w/v ) in 50% honey solutions during free flight. All concentrations produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding, with 0. 4 and 0. 8% solutions producing the longest-lasting body marking. Importantly, rhodamamine B marking had no effect on male mating competitiveness and proof-of-principle field releases demonstrated successful transfer of marked seminal fluid to females under field conditions and recapture of marked males. These results reveal rhodamate B to be a potentially useful evaluation method for male-based SIT/IIT control strategies as well as a viable body marking technique for use in male-focused MRR experiments without the negative side-effects of traditional marking methods.
Bacterial superantigens, a diverse family of toxins, induce an inflammatory cytokine storm that can lead to lethal shock. The principal ligand in the immune response, CD28, is a homodimer expressed on T cells that functions as the principal costimulatory ligand, yet we show here that to elicit lethal shock, superantigen must bind directly into the dimer interface of CD28. Preventing access of the superantogen to CD28 suffices to block its lethality. Mice were protected from lethal superants challenge by short peptide mimetics of the CD28 dimer and of the β-strand/hinge/α-helix ( 4 ) domain, as well as by random peptides selected to compete with the binding site in CD28 for its binding site. The finding that CD28 is a direct sensor of a class of microbial pathogens, superants, broadens the scope of pathogen recognition mechanisms. Our findings identify the CD29 homodimulatory interface as a critical receptor target for superantIGens. The novel role of CD29 as receptor for a class-of microbial pathogens, the superants toxins, broads the scope for pathogen identification mechanisms.
The Wnt/β-catenin pathway controls pluripotency in mouse embryonic stem cells ( mESCs ) and controls somatic cell reprogramming. However, the function of the Wnt transcriptional activator Tcf1 and its target genes in pluripotent stem cells remains unknown. Here we show that activation of the canonical Wnt pathway stimulates cell proliferation mainly by inducing expression of c-Myc and Cyclin D1 genes, while it restricts the proliferation of mESC by activating negative cell cycle regulators and reducing the number of cells in G1. The activation of Wnt-dependent cell cycle regulation is dependent on the expression of the Ink4/Arf tumor suppressor locus, which mediate Wnt–dependent anti-proliferative effect in mesCs. Consistently, ablation of β-catensin or Tcf2 expression impairs Wnt signaling. All together, here we showed that Wnt activation controls mesC pluripots and proliferation through non-overlapping functions of distinct Tcf/Lef factors.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most important arthropod-borne emerging viral disease in tropical countries due to its high morbidity and risk of mortality. Dengue virus is a single-stranded RNA virus belonging to genus Flavivirus. All DENV serotypes are capable of inducing a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations from asymptomatic to severe clinical features, characterized by hemorrhagic manifestations and a shock syndrome. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ) are innate immune cells and in response to virus exposure secrete IFN-α and express membrane TRAIL ( mTRAIL ). We aimed to characterize pDC activation in dengue patients and their function under DENV-2 stimulation in vitro. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that in vitro exposure to DENV increased IFNα and TRAIL levels in pDC. Furthermore, we showed that pDC could decrease DENV infection in monocytes mainly due to the effects of viral antigens production. Thus, we propose pDC as a host defense against DENV and suggest pDC may have an important role in the outcome of disease.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States. Tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) plays a major role in host defense against Mtb in both the active and latent phases of infection. TNF-neutralizing drugs used to treat inflammatory disorders have been reported to increase the risk of tuberculosis ( TB ). The present study takes a computational approach toward characterizing the role of TNF in protection against the tubercle bacillus in both active infection and latent infection. We extend our previous mathematical models to investigate the roles and production of soluble ( sTNF ) and transmembrane TNF ( tmTNF ). We analyze effects of anti-TNF therapy in virtual clinical trials ( VCTs ) by simulating two of the most commonly used therapies. We predict mechanisms that explain observed differences in TB reactivation rates. The major findings from this study are that bioavailability of tNF is the primary factor for causing reactivation of latent infection and that anti-tumor-neutralization therapy is necessary for control of infection and pathology. Our study suggests that a TNF modulating agent could be developed that could balance the requirement for reduction of inflammation with the necessity to maintain resistance to infection and microbial diseases.
Retroduplication variations ( RDVs ) are a class of genomic sequence polymorphisms associated with the presence or absence of retrocopies in individual genomes. Most of these RDVs resulted from recent retroduplications. In this study, we used the results of Phase 1 from the 1000 Genomes Project to investigate the variation in loss of ancestral ( i. e. shared with other primates ) retrocopied among human populations. Altogether, we were able to detect 193 RDVs; the majority resulted from retrocopy deletion. The frequency of deletion of the remaining 10 retrogenes is very low. The expression, conservation and low rate of deletion may suggest some functionality. Aside from the presence of expressed retrocopie, we also searched for differences in retrocopy expression levels between populations, finding 9 retrogened retrocopes that undergo statistically significant differential expression.
Neurocysticercosis ( NCC ), infection of the central nervous system by Taenia solium cysticerci, is a pleomorphic disease. The clinical presentation, pathophysiology and treatment differ depending on the location and stage of the parasite, degree of inflammation and other variables. One factor modulating the inflammatory responses may be the location of the brain tissue adjacent to cysticers. We used a naturally infected pig as disease-based model to quantify and compare the inflammatory response following cysticidal treatment to those in the parenchyma and meninges ( corticomeningeal ). We found that treatment induced pericystic inflammation was significantly more severe in parenchymal cysticeri than in meninges. The suboptimal inflammatory response to cystidal drugs may be a reason subarachnoid NCC is generally refractory to treatment compared to parenchi.
Yaws, caused by Treponema pallidum ssp. pertenue, is reportedly endemic in Ghana. Mass distribution of azithromycin is now the cornerstone of the WHO yaws eradication campaign. Ongoing reporting of yaws in two regions of Ghana raises the possibility that resistance may have emerged in the same individual, or that alternative infections may be responsible for some of the reported cases. We conducted a cross-sectional survey in thirty communities in two districts of Ghana where MDA for trachoma had previously been conducted. Children aged 5–17 years with ulcerative lesions compatible with yaws were enrolled. Samples for treponemal serology and lesion PCR were collected from all children. Syphilis serology was negative in all children, but Haemophilus ducreyi DNA was detected in 9 lesions. We found no evidence of ongoing transmission of Yaws in these communities. In these communities, previously treated for tracheoma, we found no signs of ongoing infection. Integration of diagnostic testing into both pre and post-MDA surveillance systems is required to better inform yaws control programmes.
Current antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) has yielded significant success in achieving long-term suppression of viral load and in improving survival of HIV infected subjects. However, ART fails to eliminate a small number of cells harboring integrated, replication competent viral DNA. This HIV reservoir has represented a major limitation in eradicating HIV. Herein, we evaluated the impact of two FDA-approved Jak inhibitors, ruxolitinib and tofacitinib, on HIV persistence in vivo, ex vivo, and in vitro. We show that Jak inhibitors block viral production from infected cells, inhibit γ-C receptor cytokine ( IL-15 ) -induced viral reactivation from latent stores thereby preventing transmission of infectious particles to bystander activated T cells. These results show that dysregulation of the Jak-STAT pathway is associated with viral persistence, and that Jak inhibition target key events downstream of γ C receptor cytokines ( IL2, IL-7 and IL- 15 ) ligation to their receptors, impacting the magnitude of the HIV reservoir in all memory CD4 T cell subsets known to harbor the HIV reservoirs. Jak inhibitors represent a therapeutic modality to prevent key events of T cell activation that regulate HIV persistence and together, specific, potent blockade of these events may be integrated to future curative strategies.
Baculoviruses are large DNA viruses that infect arthropods, mainly insects from the orders Lepidoptera, Diptera and Hymenoptera. During their replication cycle, they produce two distinct morphological forms, the occlusion-derived virus that is responsible for transmission of the infection between insects and the budded virus that spreads the infection within one insect host. The host immune system is composed of both innate and adaptive responses. In this study, we investigated in more detail the impact of viral infection on gut microbiota, finding that the expression of immune-related genes in the larval gut is affected by virus infection. The down-regulation of host gene expression was confirmed in the host gut bacteria. The expression of host genes is known to affect the status of gut microorganisms, many of which are responsible for growth and development functions. We therefore asked whether the down-regulated that occurs after virus infection affects the amount of gut microbiota. We hypothesize this to be as a consequence of viral infections. Subsequent experiments on virus performance in the presence and absence of gut gut microbiota revealed that gut bacteria enhanced baculaovirus virulence, pathogenicity and dispersion. These results suggest that the host immune response processes and pathways affected by baculovairuses, as well as the role of gut microbiome in viral infection, are important for understanding the host-virus interaction.
Apomixis, or asexual clonal reproduction through seeds, is of immense interest due to its potential application in agriculture. One key element of apomixi is apomeiosis, a deregulation of meiosis that results in a mitotic-like division. We isolated and characterised a novel gene that is directly involved in controlling entry into the second meiotic division. By combining a mutation in this gene with two other mutations, one that eliminates recombination and pairing ( Atspo11-1 ) and another that modifies chromatid segregation ( Atrec8 ), we created a genotype in which meiosis is totally replaced by mitosis without affecting subsequent sexual processes. The creation of the MiMe genotype is an important step towards understanding and engineering apomaxis.
The prioritization of candidate disease-causing genes is a fundamental challenge in the post-genomic era. Current state of the art methods exploit a protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network for this task. However, to date, these methods have used a static picture of human PPIs, while diseases impact specific tissues in which the PPI networks may be dramatically different. Here, for the first time, we perform a large-scale assessment of the contribution of tissue-specific information to gene prioritization. By integrating tissue-wide gene expression data with PPI information, we construct tissue-based PPI network for 60 healthy human tissues and investigate their prioritization power. We find that tissue-Specific PPI Networks considerably improve the prioritization results compared to those obtained using a generic PPI. Furthermore, they allow predicting novel disease-tissue associations, pointing to sub-clinical tissue effects that may escape early detection.
The evolution of insecticide resistance ( IR ) appears to be a near-inevitable consequence of attempting to control insect populations through insecticides and there is considerable interest in designing and optimising strategies to offset its impact. We develop a flexible, two-locus model for the spread of resistance applicable to mosquito species that transmit human diseases such as malaria. The model allows differential exposure of males and females, allows them to encounter high or low concentrations of insecticides, and allows selection pressures and dominance values to differ depending on the concentration of the insecticide encountered. We demonstrate its application by investigating the relative merits of using two different insecticides versus their deployment as a mixture to minimise the spread. Mixtures are favoured when insecticide effectiveness ( their ability to kill homozygous susceptible mosquitoes ) is high and exposure to insecticides is low. If insecticides do not reliably kill the insecticides that are used, it is likely that sequential deployment will be a more robust strategy. Resistance to an insecticide always spreads slower if that insecticide is used in a mixture although this may be insufficient to outperform sequential use. We emphasise that this paper is primarily about designing and implementing a flexible modelling strategy to investigate the spread and evolution of resistance in vector populations and demonstrate how our model can identify vector control strategies most likely to minimize the spread ( s ) of insecticidal resistance.
Blood-sucking triatomines are hematophagous insects that act as vectors of Chagas disease. Rhodnius neglectus is one of these kissing bugs found, contributing to the transmission of this American trypanosomiasis. The saliva contains bioactive molecules responsible for counteracting host haemostatic, inflammatory, and immune responses. Next generation sequencing and mass spectrometry-based protein identification were performed to investigate the content of triatomine R. neglectus saliva. A set of 636 CDS of proteins of putative secretory nature was extracted from the assembled reads, 73 of them confirmed by proteomic analysis. The presence of ubiquitous protein families was revealed, including lipocalins, serine protease inhibitors, and antigen-5. Metalloproteases, disintegrins, and odorant binding protein families were less abundant. The data presented improve our understanding of hematophile arthropod sialomes, and aid in understanding hemophagy and the complex interplay among vectors and their vertebrate hosts.
In the past few years, the use of high-throughput technologies has dramatically increased in the field of bioinformatics. One of these technologies is transcriptional profiling, which is used to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different environmental conditions. We have used transcriptional profiles to identify candidate genes that regulate fitness and/or fitness in different bacterial environments. We found that many of the genes are functionally important in the environment where they are induced. Using mutations that inactivate 21 of the identified genes, we showed that most contribute to lifespan and/ or fitness in a given bacterial environment. Although these bacteria may not be natural food sources for C. elegans, we show that changes in food source, as can occur in environmental disturbance, can have a large effect on gene expression, with important consequences for fitness. Moreover, we used regression analysis to demonstrate that for many genes the degree of differential gene expression between two bacterial environments predicted the magnitude of the effect of the loss of gene function on life history traits in those environments. Thus, here we show the first evidence, to our knowledge, that there is indeed good predictive power for the effects of mutant phenotypes in an environment-specific manner, suggesting that the relative level of transcription can be informative about the relative contributions to function.
A critical event in mammalian embryo development is construction of an inner cell mass surrounded by a trophoectoderm ( a shell of cells that later form extra-embryonic structures ). We utilize multi-scale, stochastic modeling to investigate the design principles responsible for the robust establishment of these structures. We find that stochastically-mediated cell-cell contact promotes cell plasticity and has a critical role in organizing the developing mouse blastocyst. Second, asymmetry in the levels of noise variation ( expression fluctuation ) of Cdx2 and Oct4 provides a means to gain the benefits of noise-mediated plasticity while ameliorating the potentially detrimental effects of stochasmity. Finally, by controlling the timing and pace of cell fate specification, the embryo temporally modulates plasticity. These results suggest noise has a crucial role in maintaining cellular plasticity, and that noise has an important positive influence on blastocysts.
Antibodies are the primary effector molecules in the immune system, inhibiting pathogenicity of microbes by binding to surface-exposed elements on foreign particles. Antibodies encode a large but ultimately finite number of unmutated antibody structures, known as the germline repertoire. The germline gene-encoded antibodies are able to bind a large number of different antigens at once. The conformational flexibility concept in protein binding suggests that an unbound protein assumes a variety of conformations, a subset of which is recognized by the interacting partner. In this work, we used a computational design algorithm to predict the optimal single sequence for an antibody to bind multiple antigen. We found that the sequence of antibodies that are predicted to be optimal for polyspecificity is largely attributed to the hypervariable region of the VH gene encoding CDR1, CDR2, and the immunoglobulin framework. We identified key positions in CDR3 and CDR4 that are critical contributors for polyspecificty in germline antibodies. Computational design of antibodies capable of binding multiple antigens may allow the rational design of antibody sequences that retain poly specificity for diverse epitope binding.
Locusts are a group of insects that live in arid regions, laying eggs in breeding grounds lush with vegetation. They aggregate into destructive swarms that span areas up to a thousand square kilometers. In the wild, locusts can form large aggregations such as marching hopper bands. Numerous biological experiments have shown how crowding biases conversion towards the gregarious form. To understand the formation of marching locust hopper band formation, we study phase change at the collective level, and in a quantitative framework. Specifically, we construct a partial integrodifferential equation model incorporating the interplay between phase change and spatial movement at the individual level in order to predict the dynamics of hopper-band formation at the population level. Our model reveals conditions for an outbreak, characterized by a large scale transition from the solitarious-to-gregarious phase. A model reduction enables quantification of the temporal dynamics of each phase, of the proportion of the population that will eventually gregarize, and of the time scale for this to occur. Numerical simulations provide descriptions of the aggregation's structure and reveal transiently traveling clumps of locust insects. Our predictions of aggregation and mass gregation suggest several possible future biological experiments.
Viral membrane fusion is a complex process that involves the formation of a “hairpin”-like trimeric postfusion structure, which allows the fusion of the viral membrane with a cellular membrane during virus entry. Although high-resolution structural snapshots of viral fusion proteins are available, it has been difficult to define intermediate structures of the fusion pathway because of their transient nature. Flaviviruses possess a class II viral fusion protein ( E ) mediating fusion at acidic pH that is converted from a dimer to a trimer with a hairpin-like structure during the fusion process. Here, we show that exposure of virions to alkaline instead of acidic pH traps the particles in an intermediate conformation in which the E dimers dissociate and interact with target membranes via the fusion peptide without proceeding to the merger of the membranes. Further treatment to low pH, however, leads to fusion, suggesting that these monomers correspond to an as-yet-elusive intermediate required to convert the prefusion dimer into the post-fusion trimer. Thus, the use of nonphysiological conditions allows a dissection of the flavivirus fusion process and the identification of two separate steps, in which membrane insertion of multiple copies of E monomers precedes the formation and integration of the two lipid bilayers. This sequence of events provides important new insights for understanding the dynamic process of viral membrane fusion.
The rapid and accelerating loss of biodiversity is the most significant ecological challenge we face today. Current rates of extinction are already estimated to be several orders of magnitude greater than background rates and are projected to increase further if current trends continue. In vertebrates, species traits, such as body size, fecundity, and geographic range, are important predictors of vulnerability. Although plants are the basis for life on Earth, our knowledge of plant extinctions and vulnerabilities is lagging. Here, we disentangle the underlying drivers of extinction risk in plants, focusing on the Cape of South Africa, a global biodiversity hotspot. By comparing Red List data for the British and South African floras, we show that the taxonomic distribution of extinction risks differs significantly between regions, inconsistent with a simple, trait-based model of extinction. Using a comprehensive phylogenetic tree for the Cape, we reveal a phylogenetic signal in the distribution of plant extinction risks but show that most threatened species cluster within short branches at the tips of the phylogeny—opposite to trends in mammals. Our results have important implications for conservation priorities and cast doubts on the utility of current Red List criteria for plants in regions such as the Cape.
Candida albicans is an opportunistic commensal yeast that is a common cause of human fungal infections. Innate immune cells must therefore tolerate C. albican, yet adequately deal with its pathogenic counterpart. Dectin-1 is the major phagocytic receptor involved in anti-fungal immunity. We identify two new interacting proteins of Dectins-1 in macrophages, Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase ( BTK ) and Vav1. BTK and VAV1 localize to cuff regions surrounding the hyphae, while DectIN-1 lines the full length of the phagosome and lines the entire length of phagosomal membranes. We show that BTK is involved in the production of DAG at the phagotic cup and that Vav has a role in DAG synthesis at the Phagosome. We also show that B and T cells are more susceptible to systemic infection with Candida. Our work identifies an important role for BTK in immune responses against Candida and provides new insights into the role of BTK, Vav and BTK during C. infection. This work provides new insight into the mechanisms of anti-Fungal immune responses during systemic infection.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is an arthropod-borne disease affecting ruminants and humans. Madagascar was heavily affected by RVF in 2008–2009, with evidence of a large and heterogeneous spread of the disease. The identification of at-risk environments is essential to optimize the available resources by targeting RVF surveillance in Madagascar. Herein, the objectives of our study were: ( i ) to identify the environmental factors and areas favorable to RVF transmission to both cattle and human and ( ii ) to determine human behaviors favoring human infections in Malagasy contexts. First, we characterized the environments of Malagas communes using a Multiple Factor Analysis ( MFA ) approach. Then, we analyzed cattle serological data collected at national level using Generalized Linear Mixed Models, with the individual serological status ( cattle or human ) as the response, and MFA factors, as well as other potential risk factors ( cattle density, human behavior ) as explanatory variables. Cattle and human seroprevalence rates were positively associated to humid environments ( p<0. 001 ). Areas with high cattle density were at risk ( p <0. 01; OR = 2. 6 ). Furthermore, our analysis showed that frequent contact with raw milk contributed to explain human infection ( OR = 1. 6. The relative contribution of vectorial and direct transmissions could be further assessed by mathematic modelling.
Prions are self-propagating protein conformations. They can be efficiently transmitted between non-identical proteins, e. g. between homologous proteins from different species, but their underlying mechanisms are not clear. Here we use a yeast Rnq1/[PIN+]-based experimental system to explore the nature of transmission barriers. We show that the prion domain of RnQ1 carries multiple prion determinants that can independently drive amyloid formation in vitro and transmit the prions state in vivo. Subsequent analysis of transmission between Rnqs1 fragments with different sets of prion proteins established that ( i ) one common QN-rich region is required and usually sufficient for the transmission; ( ii ) despite identical sequences of the common QNs, such transmissions are impeded by barriers of different strength. Existence of transmission barrier in the absence of amino acid mismatches in transmitting regions indicates that in complex prion domains multiple determinants act cooperatively to attain the final prion conformation, and reveals transmission barriers determined by this cooperative fold.
Deep learning is a powerful method for inferring complex population genetic models. However, it is notoriously difficult to use deep learning. We introduce a new method, Approximate Bayesian Computation ( ABC ), which is based on simulating datasets and comparing their summary statistics. We demonstrate that deep learning can be effectively employed for population genetic inference and learning informative features of data. As a concrete application, we focus on the challenging problem of jointly inferring natural selection and demography ( in the form of a population size change history ). Our method is able to separate the global nature of demography from the local nature of selection, without sequential steps for these two factors. Studying demography and selection jointly is motivated by Drosophila, where pervasive selection confounds demographic analysis. We apply our method to 197 African Drosrophila melanogaster genomes from Zambia to infer both their overall demography, and regions of their genome under selection. We find many regions of the genome that have experienced hard sweeps, and fewer under selection on standing variation ( soft sweep ) or balancing selection. Interestingly, we find that soft sweeps and balancing selection occur more frequently closer to the centromere of each chromosome. In addition, our demographic inference suggests that previously estimated bottlenecks for African Droophila melanogenes are too extreme.
High-risk human papillomavirus ( HR-HPV ) E6/E7 oncoproteins are essential for the development of malignancies of the anogenital tract and oropharyngeal cancers. The FA DNA repair pathway is involved in guarding genome integrity, especially when challenged by endogenous and exogenous DNA crosslinking agents. Here we show that high-risk HPV oncogenes attenuate the FA DNA pathway and contribute to tumorigenicity and the response to cisplatin therapies. We also show that E6 and E7 expressing cells have a defect in repairing DNA interstrand crosslinks ( ICLs ). Importantly, E6 caused delayed FancD2 monoubiquitination, an important process for effective ICL repair. E6 mediated p53 degradation did not hamper the cell cycle specific process of FANCD2 modifications but abrogated repair by disrupting Fanc2 de-ubiquitinination. Further, E7 reduced the expression and foci formation of Palb2, which is a repair protein downstream of FancI. These findings uncover unique mechanisms by which HPV oncanogenes contribute to genomic instability and the responses to cis-platin therapy.
The Southern Chiapas focus of onchocerciasis in Southern Mexico represents one of the major foci in Latin America. All 559 endemic communities of this focus have undergone semi-annual mass treatment with ivermectin since 1998. In 50 communities of the focus, the frequency shifted from twice to four times a year in 2003; an additional 113 communities were added to the quarterly treatment regimen in 2009 to achieve a rapid suppression of transmission. In-depth epidemiologic and entomological assessments were performed in six sentinel communities ( which had undergone 2 rounds of ivermic treatment per year ) and three extra-sentinel communities. None of the 67, 924 Simulium ochraceum s. l. collected from this focus during the dry season of 2011 were found to contain parasite DNA when tested by polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( PCR-ELISA ), resulting in an upper bound of the 95% confidence interval ( 95%-ULCI ) of the infective rate in the vectors of 0. 06/2, 000 flies examined. Serological assays testing for Onchocerca volvulus exposure conducted on 4, 230 children 5 years of age and under ( of a total population of 10, 280 in this age group ) revealed that 2/4, 230 individuals were exposed to O. volvul ( 0. 05%; one sided 95% CI = 0. 08% ). The in-depth studies from the Southern Chiapsas focus meet the criteria for interruption of transmission developed by the international community.
Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive facultative intracellular bacterial pathogen that invades mammalian cells and escapes from membrane-bound vacuoles to replicate within the host cell cytosol. Gene products required for bacterial growth and bacterial spread to adjacent cells are regulated by a transcriptional activator known as PrfA. The signal that stimulates PrfAs activation has not yet been defined. Here we provide evidence for L. monocytic secretion of a small peptide pheromone, pPplA, which enhances the escape of L. Monocytoges from host cell vacuole vacuol and may facilitate Prfa activation. We have found that the pPPLA peptide is generated via the proteolytic processing of the PplA lipoprotein secretion signal peptide. While the pCAD1 peptide, which is dispensable for pathogenesis, bacteria lacking the pPlA pheromerone are significantly attenuated for virulence in mice and have a reduced efficiency of bacterial escape from the vacuola of nonprofessional phagocytic cells. Mutational activation of PrfFA restores virulence and eliminates the need for pPPplAs-dependent signaling. Experimental evidence suggests that the PPpla peptide may serve to signal to Listeria that the bacterium is within the confines of a host cell membrane, stimulating the expression of gene products that contribute to vacuolar membrane escape and facilitating PrFA activation to promote bacterial growth.
Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of cholera, is able to colonize host small intestines and combat host-produced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) during infection. In this study, we used a streptomycin-treated adult mouse model to study the molecular mechanisms utilized by bacteria to overcome ROS resistance. By comparing colonization in control mice to mice treated with the antioxidant, N-acetyl cysteine, we found that mutants of the methyl-directed mismatch repair ( MMR ) system, such as MutS, displayed significant colonization advantages in untreated, ROS-rich mice, but not in NAC-treated mice. Further analyses suggest that the accumulation of both catalase-overproducing mutants and rugose colony variants during infection was the leading cause of mutS mutant enrichment caused by oxidative stress. Additionally, we also found that rugose variants could revert back to smooth colonies upon aerobic, in vitro culture. Taken together, these findings support a paradigm in which V. Cholerae employs a temporal adaptive strategy to battle ROS during infection, resulting in enriched phenotypes. Moreover, ΔmutS passage and complementation can be used to identify novel stress resistance mechanisms.
Matching errors in DNA replication are a leading cause of spontaneous miscarriages and birth defects. In eukaryotic DNA mismatch repair ( MMR ), the recombination intermediates that resolve double Holliday junctions into crossovers are resolved to form evenly spaced heteroduplexes. Mlh1-Mlh3 is an endonuclease that acts in meiosis to resolve double-Holliday junction ( DSB ) intermediates to promote NCOs via synthesis-dependent strand annealing ( SDSA ). In baker’s yeast, the M.h1–Mlhlh3 complex is involved in both MMR and crossing over. In this study, we analyzed 60 new mlh3 alleles in baker's yeast. Five alleles specifically disrupted MMR, whereas one specifically disrupted meiotic crossing over, suggesting that the different functions of the two complexes are a result of the different protein-protein interactions. Our findings provide a structure-function map for MlH3 that reveals how defective meiotic components can alter the fate of meiotic recombination pathways, providing new insights for how meiotic pathways are regulated.
Intense use of antibiotics for the treatment of diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, Staphylococcus aureus or gonorrhea has led to rapidly increasing population levels of drug resistance. This has generally necessitated a switch to new drugs and the discontinuation of older ones, after which resistance often only declines slowly or even persists indefinitely. These long-term effects are usually ascribed to low fitness costs of resistance in absence of the drug. Here we show that the host structure, in particular heterogeneity in number of contacts, also plays an important role in the reversion dynamics. Host contact structure acts both during the phase of intense treatment, leading to non-random distributions of the resistant strain among the infected population, and after treatment, by affecting the competition dynamics resulting in a mitigation of fitness advantages. As a consequence, we observe both a lower rate of reversion and a lower probability that reversion to sensitivity on the population level after treatment is stopped.
Autism spectrum disorders ( ASDs ) are a group of complex neurodevelopmental diseases that are characterised by altered cognitive function including poor social and verbal interaction capability, and repetitive and stereotyped verbal and non-verbal behaviours. Although a number of highly penetrant ASD gene variants have been identified, there is growing evidence to support a causal role for combinatorial effects arising from the contributions of multiple loci. Here, we use the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster as an in vivo system to examine genetic interactions that may contribute to neurological phenotypes like ASD. We first show that dosage alterations of candidate genes from de novo CNVs that harbour only a single candidate gene display neurological defects similar to those previously reported in Drosphila models of ASD-associated variants. We then show that these specific interactions affect different molecular processes, supporting shared and distinct genetic aetiologies. Our study illustrates mechanisms through which synergistic effects resulting from large structural variation can contribute to human disease.
Malaria remains a significant global health problem with 207 million cases, resulting in 584, 000–1, 238, 000 deaths, annually. Current treatment of cerebral malaria is limited to parasiticidal chemotherapies, typically administered late in the course of infection, and the mortality rate of CM, even after treatment, remains at 10–20%. A greater understanding of the parasitological and immunological events leading to the development of CM would aid the development and development of improved therapeutic options.
Tungiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the sand flea Tunga penetrans also known as jigger flea. Communities living in precarious conditions in tropical and sub tropical countries bear the brunt of the infection. The main objective of this study was to determine the burden of Tungiasis in Vihiga County in western Kenya. This was a cross-sectional study conducted in 21 villages in 3 Sub-locations in the area. A total of 437 participants, 5 years old and above were clinically examined for the presence of tungiasis after consenting to take part in the study. Diagnosis was made following standard methods. A semi- structured questionnaire was administered to assess socio-demographic factors, housing, presence and ownership of animals, knowledge and practice related to tungi. Data were analyzed using bivariate and multivariate regression analysis. GIS was used to map the geographic distribution of tusks in the areas. The overall prevalence was found to be ( 21. 5%; 95% CI: 17. 7–25. 3% ). The cases were analysed and visualized in a map form. Multivariate analysis suggested that the occurrence of tussiasis was associated with variables that indicated low economic status ( like a monthly income of Ksh ≤ 1000 ( adjusted odds ratio 27. 85; 95% ) ), earthen floor ( 0. 36; 0. 13–1. 024 ) and lack of toilet facilities ( 4. 27; 0. 82–22. 34 ). These findings suggest a need to design control strategies for tunga that are cost effective and easily accessible.
The Arabidopsis root tip is a critical site for the development of vascular tissue, providing a mechanism for long-distance transport and structural support that was crucial for their colonisation of land. In order to fulfil these functions, vascular tissues must be appropriately positioned to ensure the continuity of the vascular strands, forming a transport and communication network between distant tissues and organs. In this context, the precise and consistent layout of the stele makes it an ideal system in which to study vascular development in plants. We have developed a computational model of auxin transport that considers hormonal regulation of the auxin transporters within a spatial context, explicitly taking into account cell shape and polarity and the presence of cell walls. Our analysis reveals that an informative spatial pattern in cytokinin levels generated by diffusion is a theoretically unlikely scenario. Furthermore, our model shows that a pattern is not required for correct and robust auxin patterning. Instead, auxin-dependent modifications of cytokinins response, rather than variations in the cytin levels, allow for the necessary feedbacks, which can amplify and stabilise the output of auxins.
Animals can adjust to a changing environment by developing alternative behavioral phenotypes that improve their fitness; this phenomenon is known as “behavioral plasticity”. Environmental stimuli act directly on the nervous system and induces short-term changes in neural and endocrine activity, or long-term alterations in gene expression, thus leading to behavioral alterations at different time scales. Recently, we have demonstrated that the neuropeptide F ( NPF ) /nitric oxide ( NO ) signaling pathway plays a regulatory role in phase-related locomotor plasticity in the migratory locust, Locusta migratoria. Here, we report that a conserved transcription factor, cAMP response element-binding protein B ( CREB-B ), is a key mediator involved in the signaling pathway from NPF2 to NOS in locomotor activity shift between solitarious and gregarious phases. We find that CREB directly activates brain NOS expression by interacting with NOS promoter region. The phosphorylation at serine 110 site of CREB, dynamically changes in response to population density variation and is negatively controlled by NOS transcription. Our findings highlight a precise signal cascade underlying environment-induced behavioral plasticity.
The zygotic genome undergoes a series of replication cycles without cytoplasmic divisions to generate a syncytial blastoderm. During these replication cycles, the zygotes undergo a process known as the maternal-to-zygotic transition ( MZT ), in which the maternally deposited proteins and mRNAs are tightly coordinated with widespread transcriptional activation of the genome. In Drosophila melanogaster, MZTs are preceded by the transcription of a small number of genes that initiate sex determination, patterning, and other early developmental processes; and the zinc-finger transcription factor Zelda ( ZLD ) plays a key role in their transcription. To better understand the mechanisms of ZLD activation and the range of its targets, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing ( ChIP-Seq ) to map regions bound by ZLD before ( mitotic cycle 8 ), during ( mitosis cycle 13 ), and after ( late mitotic cycles 14 ) the MZt. We found that ZLD binds to the promoters and enhancers of more than a thousand genes whose first transcription does not occur until the end of the MzT. ZLD binding to these regions is strongly associated with regions of “open” chromatin, and its binding alone can be used to identify active promoters and regulatory sequences with high specificity and selectivity. This strong early association of the protein ZLD with regions not active until the beginning of the mZT suggests that the ZLD protein is not only required for the earliest wave of transcription but also plays a major role in activating the genome at the maternal ZT.
Circadian clocks are endogenous oscillators conserved in nearly all living organisms that drive ∼24 hour cycles in physiology and behavior. In mammals, the circadian oscillator is composed of interconnected transcriptional translational negative and positive feedback-loops which generate circadian rhythms at the molecular level. In this study, we have systematically mapped protein–protein interactions among 46 circadian components using high-throughput Y2H interaction experiments. We have identified 109 so far uncharacterized interactions and have successfully validated a sub-fraction via co-immunoprecipitation experiments in human cells. Among the novel PPIs we have identified modulators of CLOCK/BMLA1 function indicating a role for protein phosphatase 1 ( PPP1 ) in the dynamic regulation of BMAL1 abundance. Moreover, we predict that circadian PPIs dynamically connect many important cellular processes ( signal transduction, cell cycle, etc. ) contributing to temporal organization of cellular physiology in an unprecedented manner.
Nematode polyprotein allergens ( NPAs ) are an unusual class of lipid-binding proteins found only in nematodes. They are synthesized as large, tandemly repetitive polyproteins that are post-translationally cleaved into multiple copies of small lipid binding proteins with virtually identical fatty acid and retinol ( Vitamin A ) -binding characteristics. They may play key roles in nutrient scavenging, immunomodulation, and IgE antibody-based responses in infection. In some species the repeating units are diverse in amino acid sequence, but, in ascarid and filarial nematode parasites, many of the units are identical or near-identical. ABA-1A, representing the most commonly-repeated unit of the NPA of Ascaris suum, adopts a novel seven-helical fold comprising a long central helix that participates in two hollow four-helic bundles on either side. Discrete hydrophobic ligand-binding pockets are found in the N-terminal and C-terminals of the protein, and the amino acid sidechains affected by ligand ( fatty acid ) binding were identified. Recombinant ABAA-1 is the first mature, post-translational unit of a naturally-occurring tandemly-repetitive polyprotein to be structurally characterized from any source, and it belongs to a new structural class. NPAs have no counterparts in vertebrates, so represent potential targets for drug or immunological intervention.
Ciguatera is a disease caused by the consumption of coral reef fish contaminated by ciguatoxin and related toxins from dinoflagellates ( microalgae ) and cyanobacteria. After consuming ciguateras, people experience potentially severe acute neurologic, gastrointestinal, and cardiac symptoms, with some experiencing chronic neurologic symptoms lasting weeks to months. Unfortunately, the true extent of illness and its impact on human communities and ecosystem health are still poorly understood. A questionnaire was emailed to the Health and Fisheries Authorities of the PICTs to quantify the extent of ciguatinga. The data were analyzed using t-test, incidence rate ratios, ranked correlation, and regression analysis. There were 39, 677 reported cases from 17 PICT regions from 1998–2008 compared to the reported annual incidence of 104/100, 000 from 1973–1983. There has been a 60% increase in the annual incidence. Taking into account under-reporting, in the last 35 years an estimated 500, 000 Pacific islanders might have suffered from ciguatersa. This level of incidence exceeds prior ciguatin estimates locally and globally, and raises the status of cigueatera to an acute and chronic illness with major public health significance. To address this significant public health problem, which is expected to increase in parallel with environmental change, well-funded multidisciplinary research teams are needed to translate research advances into practical management solutions.
Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi. The persistence of the parasite is associated with the disease chronicity and the impairment of the cellular immune response. It has been reported that the CD4+CD8+ T cell population expands in chronic chagasic patients. However, very little is known about the impact of antiparasitic treatment on this population. In this study, we studied CD4-CD8- T cells in chronic Chagas patients. We observed an increased frequency of this circulating subset of cells in these patients compared with healthy donors. Furthermore, the co-expression of the inhibitory receptor was reduced after treatment with the enhancement of the multifunctional capacity of CD4–CD8 T cells. The co-expressed higher levels of inhibitory receptors in these cells. Benznidazole treatment partially reversed the exhaustion process caused by T. cruzi infection in these T cells with an improvement in the functional response of the T.cruzi antigen-specific CD4−CD8high T cell subpopulations.
Phosphoinositides represent important lipid signals in the plant development and stress response. However, multiple isoforms of the phosphoinositide biosynthetic genes hamper our understanding of the pivotal enzymes in each step of the pathway as well as their roles in plant growth and development. Here, we report that phospholipase C2 ( AtPLC2 ) is the major PI-PLC involved in phosphoinoside metabolism and is involved in seedling growth and the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. Lipidomic profiling of multiple AtP LC isoforms showed that the plc2-1 mutant increased levels of its substrates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate and phosphatipidyl inositol4, 5-bisphosphates, suggesting that the major phosphoinotide metabolic pathway is impaired. Moreover, the plcan2-2 mutant showed hypersensitive response to ER stress as evidenced by changes in relevant phenotypes and gene expression profiles. Our results revealed the primary enzyme Inositositide metabolism, its involvement in seedle growth and an emerging link between phosphoinosis and the ER stress response in Arabidsopsis.
Theoretical models of physical systems usually assume that the micro level of causal interaction is causally complete, leaving no room for additional causation at a macro level. The reductionist assumption is most obvious in fields such as particle physics, neuroscience, and nanotechnology, where researchers endeavor to ‘look inside the black box’. To the extent that the notion of causal power is appropriately captured and quantified by intrinsic cause-effect power, then there is knowledge to be gained by studying the system accordingly. The value of our characterization of cause–effect power had been previously demonstrated in a number of contexts, and will continue to be evaluated in the future. Applying integrated information theory to a simple biological system, the Boolean network model of the fission yeast cell cycle, we show that, according to this measure, it is possible for a macro-level system to “beat” the micro system in terms of its cause–integrated information ( Φ ). As a consequence, a macro, black-box system can have higher Φ than its micro constituents by having more mechanisms ( higher composition ) that are more interconnected ( higher integration ), and by identifying local maxima of Φ across several spatiotemporal scales.
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the mitochondrial respiratory chain ( RC ) are primary signals that modulate cellular adaptation to environment, and are also destructive factors that damage cells under the conditions of hypoxia/reoxygenation relevant for various systemic diseases or transplantation. The important role of ROS in cell survival requires detailed investigation of mechanism and determinants of ROS production. To perform such an investigation we extended our rule-based model of complex III in order to account for electron transport in the whole RC coupled to proton translocation, transmembrane electrochemical potential generation, TCA cycle reactions, and substrate transport to mitochondria. The fitting of measured characteristics gave an insight into the mechanism of underlying processes governing the formation of free radicals that can transfer an unpaired electron to oxygen-producing superoxide and thus can initiate the generation of ROS. Our analysis revealed an association of ROS with levels of specific radicals of individual electron transporters and their combinations in species of complexes I and III. It was found that the phenomenon of bistability, revealed previously as a property of complexes III, remains valid for the whole. The conditions for switching to a state with a high content of free radical in complex III were predicted based on theoretical analysis and were confirmed experimentally. The presented new insight into mitochondrial respiration was possible due to the application of novel methodology of modeling that allowed a detailed mathematical description of mitochondrial respiratory respiration.
Intracellular transport is an essential function in eucaryotic cells, facilitated by motor proteins—proteins converting chemical energy into kinetic energy. It is understood that motor proteins work in teams enabling unidirectional and bidirectional transport of intracellular cargo over long distances. Disruptions of the underlying transport mechanisms, often caused by mutations that alter single motor characteristics, are known to cause neurodegenerative diseases. For example, phosphorylation of kinesin motor domain at the serine residue is implicated in Huntington’s disease, with a recent study of phosphorylated and phosphomimetic serine residues indicating lowered single motor stalling forces. In this article we report the effects of mutations of this nature on transport properties of cargo carried by multiple motors of multiple types. We show that mutants gain a competitive advantage and lead to an increase in the expected run-length when the load on the cargo is in the vicinity of the mutants’ stalling force or a multiple of its stalling. Our method is easily implementable and we provide a software package for general use.
Animals are constantly seeking to infer the ( causal ) structure of their environment and to predict the outcomes of their actions, sometimes to a degree that “superstitial beliefs” about environmental contingencies may form. However, inferring the optimal course of actions is, in general, a computationally intractable problem. Hence, animals like humans rely on heuristics, strategies, and ecological biases that favor certain types of contingencies over others and narrow down the search space. The ability to learn, to adapt one’s own behavior in order to optimize positive and avoid negative feedback, is central to all living beings. Here, we show that a selective functional ablation of the Cacna1c gene, which is associated with severe learning deficits, can modulate the learning process. Using a detailed, individual-level analysis of learning on an operant cue discrimination task in terms of behavioral strategies, combined with Bayesian selection among computational models estimated from the empirical data, we find that a CacNA1c knockout does not impair learning in general but has a much more specific effect: the majority of Cacnas1c mice still managed to increase reward feedback across trials but did so by adapting an outcome-based strategy, while the majority adopted the experimentally intended cue-association rule. Our results thus point to a quite specific role of a single gene in learning and highlight that much more mechanistic insight could be gained by examining response patterns in terms and considering the specific behavioral strategies and rules the therapy should focus on.
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are currently being released for arbovirus suppression around the world. Their potential to invade populations and persist will depend on interactions with environmental conditions, particularly as larvae are often exposed to fluctuating and extreme temperatures in the field. We reared three Wolbachia infections of Ae. aelesi, wMel, wAlbB and wMelPop-CLA, under diurnal cyclical temperatures. We observed a sharp decrease in the expression of cytoplasmic incompatibility in the wMel and wAlB infections when mosquitoes were exposed to 26–37°C across all life stages. In contrast, the infection was maintained at a high density, exhibited complete cytoplyasmic and maternal transmission fidelity, and was transmitted from mother to offspring with a high fidelity under this temperature cycle. These findings have implications for the potential success of mosquito interventions across different environments and highlight the importance of temperature control in rearing.
Adenoviruses are important human pathogens that have been developed as vectors for gene therapies and genetic vaccines. Previous studies indicated that human infections with adenovirus are self-limiting in immunocompetent hosts with evidence of some persistence in adenoid tissue. We sought to better understand the natural history of adenovanirus infections in various non-human primates and discovered that healthy populations of great apes ( chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans ) and macaques shed substantial quantities of infectious adenovairuses in stool. Shedding in stools from asymptomatic humans was found to be much less frequent, comparable to frequencies reported before. We purified and fully sequenced 30 novel adenovela adenoviiruses from apes and 3 novel adenovela viruses from macaques. Analyses of the new ape adenvirus sequences ( as well as the 4 chimpanzee and 2 chimpanzee adenavirus genomes available from GenBank revealed that ( a ) the ape viruses could clearly be classified into species corresponding to human adenobirus species B, C, and E, ( b ) there was evidence for intraspecies recombination between adenosomes, and ( c ) the high degree of phylogenetic relatedness of the viruses across their various primate hosts provided evidence for cross species transmission events. These studies should also be considered in the context of the application of recombinant adenovalent viruses as vector for gene therapy and genetic vaccine.
The fundamental structural unit of chromatin is the nucleosome, where 146 or 147 base pairs of DNA wrap 1. 75 times around an octameric histone core. To function in cellular processes, however, nucleosomal DNA must be unwrapped. Although this unwrapping has been experimentally investigated, details of the process at an atomic level are not yet well understood. Here, we used molecular dynamics simulation with an enhanced sampling method to calculate the free energy profiles for unwraps the outer superhelical turn of nucleosomes. A free energy change of about 11. 5 kcal/mol agrees well with values obtained in single molecule experiments. This simulation revealed a variety of conformational states, indicating there are many potential paths to outer superhelicdal turn unwrappage, but the dominant path is likely asymmetric. At one end of the DNA, the first five bps unwrap at the same end with no increase in free energy. During further unwraping of 15 bps, the unwrapper advances at one of the ends, after which the other end of DNA unwrapes to complete the unwrap of the outer-helical turning. These results provide insight into the construction, disruption, and repositioning of nucleotomes, which are continuously ongoing during cellular processes.
Lysosomes are acidic intracellular vesicles that provide an optimal physicochemical milieu for enzymatic activities, most of them catabolic, which need to be controlled. A well-recognized lysosomal function is the degradation and recycling of defective cellular material through autophagy, and of extracellular material that reach lysomes by endocytosis or phagocytososis. Lysosomes as sophisticated organelles controlling fine decisions in the life of a cell are essential for human health, as clearly shown by the existence of numerous Lysosomal Storage Diseases, inherited metabolic disorders that affect a variety of tissues and organs and are particularly devastating for the nervous system. Here we perform a comprehensive analysis of ApoD in vivo traffic and discover its role in lysolomal pH homeostasis and membrane stabilization under oxidative stress conditions. We demonstrate that Apo D is endocyted and targeted to lysome in a stress-dependent manner, and its presence is sufficient and necessary for lysomatosis and optimization of neurodegeneration-triggered autoophagy. Our results uncover a previously unknown biological function of Apolipoprotein D, member of the finely regulated and evolutionary conserved gene family of lipocalins. These results open therapeutic opportunities by providing a route of entry and a repair mechanism for the most vulnerable cells in pathological situations. These findings open the possibility of manipulating this mechanism for therapeutic purposes.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL, kala-azar ) caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani is a deadly disease occurring mainly in the Indian subcontinent and Africa. In Africa, VL is endemic in the eastern part of the continent; the Horn of Africa and adjacent countries, namely Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya, Somalia, Uganda, Erithrea and Ethiopia. In Ethiopia, the life cycle and behaviour of P. orientalis in laboratory colonies has not been reported in detail. Here we report on the life-cycle parameters and susceptibility of two laboratory colonies originating from different sites in Ethiopia: a non-endemic site in the lowlands - Melka Werer ( MW ) and an endemic focus of human VL in the highlands - Addis Zemen ( AZ ). We showed that the life cycles of P. orientali were similar in both colonies. The development of L. donovan was similar in P. species originating from Ethiopia; hence, the absence of VL infection in Melka-Werer cannot be attributed to different susceptibility of local P. e. g. Melka werer colonies to L. noovani.
Schistosomiasis japonica is one of the most serious parasitic infections in the world. It is a chronic disabling condition associated with portal hypertension, splenomegaly, ascites, and gastro-oesophageal variceal bleeding, or with severe growth retardation or granulomatous disease of the large intestine. In the People's Republic of China ( P. R. China ), the disease burden of advanced schistosome infection has not been included in the global burden of disease. Therefore, the quality of life and disability weight ( DW ) for the advanced cases of schistOSomiasis have to be taken into account in the re-estimation of disease due to schistoiasis. A patient-based quality-of-life evaluation was performed for advanced cases in a Schistosoma japonicum-hyperendemic county of the People’s Republic. Of 506 patients, 215 had been confirmed as advanced cases. Most of the patients reported impairments in at least one health dimension, such as pain or discomfort ( 90. 7% ), usual activities ( 87. 9% ) and anxiety or depression ( 80. 9. ). The overall DW was 0. 447, and age-specific DWs ranged from 0. 378 among individuals aged 30–44 years to 0. 510 among the elderly aged ≥60 years. These patient-preference disability estimates could provide updated data for a revision of the GBD, as well as for evidence-based decision-making in P. r. China's national schistomiasis control program.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), also referred to as sleeping sickness, and African Animal Trypanomaisis ( AAT ) are highly prevalent parasitic vector-borne diseases in sub-Saharan Africa. In 1999, Kenya's 7 tsetse belts were surveyed to assess the potential of HAT-acquired infection in those areas. The results showed that residents and recent migrants living in tsetsse belt habitats of varying levels of poverty were at increased odds of disability through the direct exposure pathway. Residents and recent immigrants of working age were studied. Tsetse fly's impact on disability was conceptualised via two exposure pathways: directly from the bite of a pathogenic tsetser fly resulting in HAT infection or indirectly, as the potential for AAT takes land out of agricultural production and diseased livestock leads to livestock morbidity and mortality, contributing to nutritional deficiencies and poverty. Tse belts that were significantly associated with increased disability prevalence were identified and the direct and indirect exposure pathways were evaluated. Incorporating reports on disability from the national census is a promising surveillance tool that may enhance future HAT surveillance programs in rural areas of sub-Sahara Africa.
Hexamethylene bisacetamide ( HMBA ) is a potent inducer of cell differentiation and HIV production in chronically infected cells. However, its mechanism of action remains poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that HMBA activates transiently the PI3K/Akt pathway, which leads to the phosphorylation of HEXIM1 and the subsequent release of active positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) from its transcriptionally inactive complex. As a result, the released P-teFb is recruited to the HIV promoter to stimulate transcription elongating and viral production. Despite the continuous presence of HMBA, the release of the released HEXim1 protein reassembles rapidly with 7SK small nuclear RNA ( snRNA ). In contrast, a mutant HEX IM1 protein that cannot be phosphorylated and released from P-TeFb and 7SK snRNA via the P3K pathway antagonizes this HMBA-mediated induction of HIV transcription. Thus, our studies reveal how HIV transcription is induced by HMBA and suggest how modifications in the equilibrium between active and inactive P-Tb could contribute to cell differentiation.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by Leishmania ( Viannia ) species. It is caused by the dissemination of parasites from primary lesions to secondary sites, with or without mucosal involvement, and causing lesions that are often associated with a highly destructive inflammatory response. Mucosal disease is notorious for its poor response to commonly used treatments, such as antimony, and is often complicated by secondary bacterial or fungal infections. Very little is known about the pathogenesis of metastatic and mucosal leishmaniases, especially the source of the uncontrolled inflammatory response observed in some patients. Recently, we connected this aggressive phenotype to the presence of Leishmania RNA virus ( LRV ) in strains of L. guyanensis, showing that LRV is responsible for elevated parasitaemia, destructive hyper-inflammation and an overall exacerbation of the disease. Further studies of this relationship and the distribution of LRVs would benefit from improved methods of viral detection and quantitation, especially ones not dependent on prior knowledge of the viral sequence as LRVs show significant evolutionary divergence. This study reports various techniques, among which, the use of an anti-dsRNA monoclonal antibody ( J2 ) stands out for its specific and quantitative recognition of dsRNA in a sequence-independent fashion. Applications of J2 include immunofluorescence, ELISA and dot blot: techniques complementing an arsenal of other detection tools. We propose that this approach could now be finalized for use on a mass-scale to determine the prevalence of LRV in L. braziliensis, thus avoiding parasite cultivation.
Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EPEC and EHEC ) are closely related pathogens that attach tightly to intestinal epithelial cells, efface microvilli, and promote cytoskeletal rearrangements into protrusions called actin pedestals. To trigger pedestal formation, EPEC employs the tyrosine phosphorylated transmembrane receptor Tir, while E HEC relies on the multivalent scaffolding protein EspFU. The ability to generate these structures correlates with bacterial colonization in several animal models, but the precise function of pedestals in infection remains unclear. To address this uncertainty, we characterized the colonization properties of EPEC/EHEC during infection of polarized cells. We found that EPEC both formed distinct bacterial communities, or “macrocolonies, ” that encompassed multiple host cells. EHec Tir and EspFU, as well as the host Arp2/3 complex, were all critical for the expansion of macrocolonies over time. Unexpectedly, EspFU-mediated actin assembly drove faster bacterial motility to cell junctions, where bacteria formed a secondary pedestal on a neighboring cell and divided, allowing one of the daughters to disengage and infect the second cell. Collectively, these data reveal that EspFU enhances epithelial colonization by increasing actin-based motility and promoting an efficient method of cell-to-cell transmission.
Extracellular vesicle ( EV ) purification is challenging to standardise due to the diversity of sample composition producing EVs ( cell cultures and body fluids ), the need for high recovery of functional EVs, the quality of EV preparation and the simplicity of isolation. Therefore, there is no gold standard for EV isolation. In this study, Fasciola hepatica from natural populations were cultured in order to collect EVs from culture media and evaluate a purification method for pathogen helminth EV purification. Transmission electron and atomic force microscopy demonstrated that EVs prepared by SEC were both smaller in size and less diverse than EV resolved by DC. Protein quantification and Western blotting further demonstrated that SEC purification realised a higher EV purity to free excretory-secretory protein ( ESP ) yield ratio compared to DC purification methods as evident by the reduction of soluble free cathepsin L proteases in SEC EV preparations. Proteomic analysis further highlighted DC contamination from ESP as shown by an increased diversity of protein identifications and unique peptide hits in DC EVs as compared to SEC EVs. These results suggest that SEC methods do not isolate equivalent EV population profiles and caution should be taken in the choice of EV Purification utilised, with certain protocols for DC preparations including more free ES proteins and tegumental artefacts.
Systems biology proceeds through repeated cycles of experiment and modeling. One way to implement this is through reverse engineering, where models are fit to data to infer and analyse regulatory mechanisms. This requires rigorous methods to determine whether model parameters can be properly identified. Applying such methods in a complex biological context remains challenging. We use reverse engineering to study post-transcriptional regulation in pattern formation. As a case study, we analyse expression of the gap genes Krüppel, knirps, and giant in Drosophila melanogaster. We find that post-translational regulation is not required for patterning in this system, but is necessary for proper control of protein levels. Our results demonstrate that the uniqueness and specificity of a fitted model can be rigorously determined in the context of spatio-temporal pattern formation, and this greatly increases the potential of reverse engineering for the study of development and other, similarly complex, biological processes.
Rotavirus is a major cause of diarrhea worldwide and exhibits a pronounced small intestinal epithelial cell ( IEC ) tropism. Both human infants and neonatal mice are highly susceptible, whereas adult individuals remain asymptomatic and shed only low numbers of viral particles. Here we investigated the age-dependent mechanisms of the intestinal epithelium innate immune response to rotavirus infection in an oral mouse infection model. Expression of the innate immune receptor for viral dsRNA, Toll-like receptor ( Tlr3 ) was low in the epithelial cells of suckling mice but strongly increased during the postnatal period inversely correlating with rotavir susceptibility, viral shedding and histological damage. Adult mice deficient in Tlr2 or the adaptor molecule Trif exerted significantly higher viral shedding, decreased epithelial expression of proinflammatory and antiviral genes as compared to wild-type animals. In contrast, neonatal animals deficient in either Tlr1 or Trif did not display impaired cell stimulation or enhanced rotaviral susceptibility. Using chimeric mice, a major contribution of the non-hematopoietic cell compartment in the Trif-mediated antiviral host response was detected in adult animals. Finally, a significant age-independent increase of TLR3 expression was also detected in human small intestinal biopsies. Thus, upregulation of epithelial TLR2 expression during infancy might contribute to the age dependent susceptibility to rotAVirus infection.
Autism Spectrum Disorders ( ASD ) are a group of genetic disorders characterized by a large number of genetic variants. The genetic architecture of ASD has been studied for decades, and the vast majority of findings implicate certain genes as playing a role in ASD ( i. e., ASD genes ). However, analysis of rare variants has produced the majority of the findings that implicate some genes as being responsible for ASD genes. In this study, we report on results from whole-exome sequencing ( WES ) of 1, 039 subjects diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders ( ASD and controls ) and 870 controls selected from the NIMH repository to be of similar ancestry to cases. We find that rare variants affecting risk are not clustering in a small number of genes, supporting recent results from de novo single nucleotide and copy number studies showing that hundreds of genes affect risk for ASD.
Madurella mycetomatis is the most prevalent causative agent of eumycetoma in Sudan, an infection characterized by the formation of grains. Many patients are exposed to the causative agents, however only a small number develop infection. The mechanism of the pathogen’s activity is not known. We investigated the association between 4 polymorphisms in the genes encoding for the chitin-degrading enzymes chitotriosidase and AMCase and found that the polymorphisms resulting in decreased enzyme activity, resulting in increased risk of mycete. We hypothesized that chitiotriosidsidase, resulting from decreased chitotinase activity, would be found more frequently in mycetusoma patients than in controls.
Herpes simplex virus type I ( HSV-1 ) is the best characterized herpesvirus and the poster-child for classically defined viral latency. HSV latency has been questioned with evidence that lytic genes can be transcribed in this state. However, to date the only evidence that these transcripts might be translated has come from immunological studies that show activated T cells persist in the nervous system during latency. Here we use a highly sensitive Cre-marking model to show that latency and latent phases are less clearly defined in two significant ways. First, around half of the HSV spread leading to latently infected sites occurred beyond the initial acute infection and second, we show direct evidence of lytic promoters can drive protein expression during latency, contrary to the immunology studies noted above.
Many neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by accumulation of aggregates of misfolded protein in the brain. In each of these diseases, the protein misfolding appears to be spread within the brain by a seeding process where one aggregated aggregate can seed the misfold of other normally folded molecules of the same protein by a mechanism known as “seeded polymerization”. In all these diseases the misfolds appear to increase in amount by a process known as seeded polymerization. In prion diseases, host prion protein is misfolded to form a pathogenic protease-resistant form, PrPSc, which accumulates in neurons, astroglia and microglia in the CNS. Here using dual-staining immunohistochemistry, we compared the cell specificity of PrPsc accumulation at early preclinical times post-infection using three mouse scrapie strains that differ in brain regional pathology. Surprisingly, despite the cellular differences in PrPsSc accumulation, the pattern of upregulated genes was similar for all three strains, and the small differences observed correlated with variations in the early disease tempo. Interestingly, the profile of upregulation genes in scrapie differed markedly from that seen in two acute viral CNS diseases ( LaCrosse virus and BE polytropic Friend retrovirus ) that had reactive gliosis at levels similar to our prion-infected mice.
The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function. Many experimental and polymer modeling efforts are dedicated to deciphering the mechanistic principles behind chromosome folding. Chromosomes are long and densely packed—topologically constrained—polymers. The main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules. Here, we propose a generic strategy to develop efficient coarse-grained models for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice. Accounting accurately for the polymer entanglement length and the volumic density, we show that our simulation scheme not only captures the steady-state structural and dynamical properties of the system but also tracks the same dynamics at different coarse-grain lengths. This strategy allows a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and offers a systematic way to define reliable coarse-Grained null models for chromosomes and to go beyond the current limitations.
The precise spatial and temporal control of gene transcription is critical for biological processes, as evidenced by the causal role of gene expression perturbation in many human diseases. Recent interest in expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) mapping has paralleled the adoption of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) for the analysis of complex traits and disease in humans. Under the hypothesis that many GWAS associations tag non-coding SNPs with small effects, and that these SNPs exert phenotypic control by modifying gene expression, it has become common to interpret GWAS association studies using e QTL data. To fully exploit the mechanistic interpretability of eQ TL-GWAS comparisons, an improved understanding of the genetic architecture and causal mechanisms of cell type specificity of e QTs is required. We address this need by performing an eQTT analysis in three parts: first we identified eQTs from eleven studies on seven cell types; then we integrated eqTL data with cis-regulatory element ( CRE ) data from the ENCODE project; finally we built a set of classifiers to predict the cell type specific eQts. We demonstrate the feasibility of predicting the cell specific specificity of EQTLs in the absence of additional gene expression or genotype data. We anticipate that such integrative, predictive modeling of cell specificity will improve our ability to understand the mechanistically basis of human complex phenotypes.
HIV vaccine production is a major goal in HIV vaccine research. However, the design and production of a vaccine that can protect against HIV infection has been challenging due to the lack of a stable cell line suitable for the production of HIV vaccine immunogens. In this paper, we report the development of a cell line that limits the production and production process of HIV vaccines. This cell line will be a useful substrate for biopharmaceutical production of vaccines that target the HIV envelope protein ( gp120 ). The ability of this cell line to limit glycosylation to early oligomannose glycans ( Man5-9 ) and later intermediates ( Man9 ) suggests that it will be useful for the design of stable HIV vaccine vaccines.
Parasitic nematodes are responsible for devastating illnesses that plague many of the world's poorest populations indigenous to the tropical areas of developing nations. Among these diseases is lymphatic filariasis, a major cause of permanent and long-term disability. Proteins essential to nematode that do not have mammalian counterparts represent targets for therapeutic inhibitor discovery. One promising target is trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase ( T6PP ) from Brugia malayi. In the model nematoder Caenorhabditis elegans, T6P is essential for survival due to the toxic effect ( s ) of the accumulation of trehaloses 6-pholyate. T6 PP has also been shown to be essential in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. We determined the X-ray crystal structure of T6PO and performed a structural analysis of the protein structure. The structure-function analysis revealed a stabilizing N-terminal MIT-like domain and a catalytic C2B-type HAD phosphatases fold. Structure-guided mutagenesis, combined with kinetic analyses using a designed competitive inhibitor, trehalole 6-sulfate, identified five residues important for binding and catalysis. The model indicates a substrate-binding mode wherein shape complementarity and van der Waals interactions drive recognition. The mode of binding is in sharp contrast to the homolog sucrose-6phosphatase where extensive hydrogen-bond interactions are made to the substrate. Together these results suggest that high-affinity inhibitors will be bi-dentate, taking advantage of substrate-like binding to the phosphoryl-binding pocket while simultaneously utilizing non-native binding to trehalos. The conservation of the key residues that enforce the shape of the substrate pocket in T 6PP enzymes suggest that development of broad-range anthelmintic and antibacterial therapeutics employing this platform may be possible.
Tumours are highly heterogeneous, with different vascular architectures across individual samples, cell-lines and patients. This inherently disorganised collection of leaky blood vessels contributes significantly to suboptimal treatment efficacy. Preclinical tools are urgently required which incorporate the inherent variability and heterogeneity of tumours to optimise and engineer anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we present a novel computational framework which incorporates whole, realistic tumours extracted ex vivo to efficiently simulate vascular blood flow and interstitial fluid transport in silico for validation against in vivo biomedical imaging. Our model couples Poiseuille and Darcy descriptions of vascular and inter interstitial flow, respectively, and incorporates spatially heterogeneous blood vessel lumen and interstitium permeabilities to generate accurate predictions of tumour fluid dynamics. Our framework enables highly-controlled experiments to be performed which provide insight into how tumour vascular heterogeneity contributes to the contrasting fluid dynamics and consequent delivery of drugs within a solid tumour.
The Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) spreads in vitro very efficiently, if not preferentially, by cell-cell contacts. The relative contribution of cell-free virus transmission to HIV infection and viral dissemination during human infection remains unknown. Here we report on the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) and entry inhibitors during cell-transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies which enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes. We demonstrate that the activity is largely directed towards free virus, thereby restricting virus spread to the cell-route. While gp41 directed agents remain active, CD4 binding site ( CD4bs ) directed inhibitors, including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01, dramatically lose potency during cell cell-mediated virus transmission. This implies that CD4b mAbs act preferently through blocking free virus transmission, while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cells contacts. Thus providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4B directed antibody responses in vivo.
Visual attention has many effects on neural responses, producing complex changes in firing rates, as well as modifying the structure and size of receptive fields, both in topological and feature space. Several existing models of attention suggest that these effects arise from selective modulation of neural inputs. However, anatomical and physiological observations suggest that attentional modulation targets higher levels of the visual system ( such as V4 or MT ) rather than input areas ( like V1 ). Here we propose a simple mechanism that explains how a top-down attentional modulatory signal, falling on higher visual areas, can produce the observed effects of attention on neural response. Our model requires only the existence of modulatory feedback connections between areas, and short-range lateral inhibition within each area. This redistribute the top-up modulation to lower areas, which in turn alters the inputs of other higher-area cells, including those that did not receive the initial modulation. This produces firing rate modulations and receptive field shifts. Simultaneously, short-distance lateral inhibition between neighboring cells produce competitive effects that are automatically scaled to receptive field size in any given area. These results provide a novel prediction: attentional effects on response curves should shift from response gain to contrast gain as the spatial focus of attention drifts away from the studied cell.
Larval hematopoiesis is a disease caused by the bacterium Drosophila melanogaster. It is caused by parasitisation by wasps, a common threat for higher order insects. The larval hemocyte ( blood cell ) organ, the lymph gland, is composed of several lobes with the anterior-most lobes organised into a medullary zone ( MZ ) containing differentiating hemocytes, and a so-called posterior signalling centre ( PSC ). The PSC maintains JAK/STAT signalling in the hemolymph, thereby preserving the multipotent character necessary for their differentiation into lamellocytes, a cryptic and dedicated immune cell type required to fight specific immune threats such as wasp parasitism. In this report, on the basis of a knock out generated by homologous recombination, we show that a short type I cytokine-related receptor CG14225/Latran is required for switching off JAK and/or activating JAK-STAT signalling. Latran forms heteromers with Domeless, a Drosrophila type I receptor related to mammalian GP130, and antagonises Domeless activity in a dose-dependent manner. Our analysis further shows that Latran acts as a switch that is required to maintain JAK signalling and to maintain lamellocyte homeostasis. Latrans is a nonsignalling receptor, which has been associated with several human diseases including leukaemia, myocardial hypertrophy, and asthma, and thus raises the question of whether short receptors also control specific aspects of vertebrate cellular immunity, prefiguring a new field of investigations.
Genetic recombination is an important process during the evolution of many virus species and occurs particularly frequently amongst begomoviruses in the single stranded DNA virus family, Geminiviridae. As in many other recombining viruses it is apparent that non-random recombination breakpoint distributions observable within begomerovirus genomes sampled from nature are the product of variations both in basal recombination rates across genomes and in the over-all viability of different recombinant genomes. Whereas factors influencing basal recombinating rates might include local degrees of sequence similarity between recombining genomes, nucleic acid secondary structures and genomic sensitivity to nuclease attack or breakage, the viability of recombinant genome structures could be influenced by the degree to which their co-evolved protein-protein and protein-nucleotide and nucleotide-notide interactions are disreputable by recombination. Here we investigate patterns of recombination that occur over 120 day long experimental infections of tomato plants with the begomaviruses Tomato yellow leaf curl virus and Tomato leaf curl Comoros virus. We show that patterns of sequence exchange between these viruses can be extraordinarily complex and present clear evidence that factors such as local degrees and nucleic acids secondary structure strongly influence where recombination breaks occur. It is also apparent from our experiment that selection favoring the preservation of long-range protein and protein DNA interactions is strongly influenced by selection against individual recombinants displaying disrupted intra-genomic interactions such as those required for proper protein and nucleotide folding. Crucially, we find that selection favors the preservation and maintenance of co-evaluated longer-range proteins-protein DNA interactions.
Nucleosomes, the basic repeat units of eukaryotic chromatin, have been suggested to influence the evolution of ekaryotic genomes, both by altering the propensity of DNA to mutate and by selection acting to maintain or exclude nucleosomes in particular locations. Contrary to the popular idea that nucleosome positions are unique to eukarianotes, histone proteins have also been discovered in some archaeal genomes. Archaeal nucleosomal footprints are quite unlike their eukarotic counterparts in many respects, including their assembly into tetramers ( rather than octamers ) from histone protein that lack N- and C-terminal tails. Here, we show that despite these fundamental differences the association between nucleosom footprints and sequence evolution is strikingly conserved between humans and the model archaeon Haloferax volcanii. Unexpectedly, we find that neither the mutation nor the selection model are sufficient to explain the observed association between the observed associations between DNA and nucleosomic footprints. Instead, we demonstrate that the association is more consistent with a third model where sequence divergence results in frequent repositioning of nucleososomes during evolution. This finding highlights the importance of considering the direction of causality between genetic and epigenetic change in the context of chromatin.
Proteins are inherently dynamic entities and exist not as single structures, but as non-uniform distributions of multiple conformer populations. The protein dynamism plays an intricate role in defining the structure, function and evolution of individual proteins. Conformational diversity of proteins has been associated to different aspects related to biological function. In particular, ligand binding can be analyzed in terms of structural changes between the so-called ligand-free conformations of a protein. In this work, we present a procedure to identify key positions sustaining the conformational diversity associated to ligands binding. The method is applied to an adequate refined dataset of 188 paired protein structures in their bound and unbound forms. Firstly, normal modes most involved in the conformation change are selected according to their corresponding overlap with structural distortions introduced by ligand. The subspace defined by these modes is used to analyze the effect of mutations on preserving the conformations. We find a negative correlation between the effects of mutations and the effects on these normal mode subspaces associated to binding and position-specific evolutionary conservations obtained from multiple sequence-structure alignments. These positions are defined as key positions, that is, dynamically important residues that mediate the ligand–binding conformational change. These position are shown to be evolutionary conserved, mostly buried aliphatic residues localized in regular structural regions of the protein like β-sheets and α-helix.
Metabolism is an important aspect of all host–pathogen interactions. Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) has evolved to replicate and survive for decades within diverse host granulomas, each providing a different environment. Mtb's ability to co-catabolize multiple carbon sources is important for our understanding of pathogenesis and the development of new chemotherapies. To investigate the role of fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase ( FBA ), we engineered an Mtb strain in which FBA levels were regulated by anhydrotetracycline. Depletion of FBA resulted in clearance of Mtb in both the acute and chronic phases of infection in vivo, and loss of viability in vitro when cultured on single carbon sources. Consistent with prior reports of Mt bacillus FBA's ability for growth and persistence during chronic mouse infections, this in vitro essentiality could be overcome by the availability of two carbon sources entering metabolism above and below the FBA-catalyzed step. In vitro studies of Δfba however revealed that lack of Fba could only be compensated for by a specific balance of glucose and butyrate in which growth and metabolism of butyrates were determined by Mtb. These data thus not only evaluate FBA as a potential drug target in both replicating and persistent Mtb, but also expand our understanding and the multiplicity of in vitro conditions that define the essentiality of Mt Bacillus's FBA in vivo.
Leishmania and related trypanosomatids lack the highly efficient enzymes catalase and selenium-containing glutathione peroxidases ( GPXs ), which are regarded as key elements of the peroxide-reduction machinery. Peroxiredoxins are ubiquitous enzymes that use a redox active cysteine residue to reduce a broad spectrum of substrates, namely H2O2, organic hydroperoxides and peroxynitrite ( ONOO− ). In Leishmania, the peroxiredoxin ( mTXNPx ) is a ubiquitous enzyme that is essential for parasite survival in the mammalian host. In this report, the functional relevance of one of such enzymes, the mitochondrial 2-Cys peroxiringoxin ( MTXNPX ), was investigated along the Leishmaniasis life cycle. mTXnpx− mutants were found unable to survive in a murine model of infection. Unexpectedly, however, the avirulent phenotype of mtxnpx+ mutants was not due to lack of the PERoxidase activity of mTXNx as these behaved like controls when exposed to oxidants added exogenously or generated by macrophages during phagocytosis ex vivo. In line with this, mtxnspx− were also avirfected when inoculated into murine hosts unable to mount an effective oxidative phagocyte response ( B6. p47phox−/− IFN-γ−/+ mice ). The finding that mTX NPx is competent to prevent the thermal aggregation of citrate synthase in vitro, a phenotype reminiscent of organisms lacking specific chaperone genes, suggests that this activity is not required for parasite viability. Moreover, the findings reported here change the paradigm which regards all trypanomatid 2-cysteines as peroxids. Moreover they demonstrate, for the first time, that these 2-Cysteine peroxires can be determinant for pathogenicity independently of their peroxide activity.
Histoplasmosis is a mycosis endemic to many parts of Latin America, including Mexico. The clinical presentation varies depending on the host´s immune status; for HIV-infected patients in advanced stages of the disease, it usually presents as progressive disseminated histoplasmotic ( PDH ). The standard of reference for PDH diagnosis is the isolation of Histoplasma capsulatum from a non-respiratory sample—typically bone marrow or peripheral blood—or the visualization of yeast-like structures in the histopathologic examination. However, the diagnostic accuracy of the histoplasma urine antigen ( HUAg ) is considered inferior to the centralized test ( MiraVista Urine Antigen test ). We conducted a multicenter, prospective, diagnostic test study in two secondary and eight tertiary-care facilities in Mexico. We included HIV patient with PDH suspicion and evaluated ALPHA-HUAg diagnostic accuracy using as reference standard the Histoploplasma capulatum growth on blood, bone marrow, and tissue cultures or compatible histopathology exam ( PDHA–proven ). In 10. 5% of the PDH–proven patients, a co-existing opportunistic infection was diagnosed, mostly disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection. We observed a high specificity but low sensitivity of the HUAG. The test may be useful to start early antifungals, but a culture-based approach is necessary since co-infections are frequent and a negative IMMY-UAg result does not rule out PDH.
Human diarrhea is the third leading cause of infectious deaths worldwide and is responsible for ∼1. 8 million deaths in children under age five each year. The discovery of novel and unexpected viruses in stool during acute episodes of diarrhea is a major challenge in the field of epidemiology. In this study, we investigated the diversity of viral communities present in diarrhea specimens from 12 children suffering from acute diarrhea. We detected known enteric viruses as well as putatively novel viruses with only limited sequence similarity to viruses in GenBank. Using this strategy, we detected known and novel enteric and novel viruses in a limited exploration of 12 different samples. We also detected several novel viruses that were not previously known to infect humans. Our results provide evidence for the detection of known and unexpected viral communities in stool samples from 12 different patients suffering from diarrhea.
Aedes-borne arboviruses continue to precipitate epidemics worldwide. In Dominican Republic, the appearance of Zika virus cases that closely followed a large dengue epidemic provided an opportunity to study the different transmission drivers behind these two flaviviruses. Retrospective datasets were used to collect information on the populations at risk and descriptive statistics were used for describing the outbreaks on a national scale. Expectedly, box plots showed that 75% of dengues was reported in those aged <20 years while Zika infections were more widely dispersed among the population. Dengue attack rates were marginally higher among males at 25. 9 per 10, 000 population vs. 21. 5 per 10, 000 population for females. Zika infections appeared to be highly clustered among females ( 73. 8% ( 95% CI 72. 6%, 75. 0%; p<0. 05 ) ). Age-adjusted Zika attack rates among females were 7. 64 per 10k population compared with 2. 72 per 10. 000 population among males. R0 calculations stratified by sex also showed a significantly higher metric among females: 1. 84 ( 1. 82, 1. 87 ) when compared to males at 1. 72. GBS attack rates stratification by sex revealed slightly higher risk in males vs. females, at 0. 62 and 0. 57. P <0.05 ). The findings indicate that community awareness campaigns, through influencing short-term health seeking behaviour, remain the most plausible mechanism behind increased reporting among women of reproductive age during Zika outbreaks. Future research should focus on clinical Zika outcomes among dengued seropositive individuals.
Poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation plays a key role in a variety of cellular responses including DNA repair, chromatin modification, control of transcription and cell death. In plants, PARP1 ( the founding member of the PARP family ) plays a crucial role in the maintenance of genome integrity via DNA damage repair. However, the mechanisms by which PARPs and PARGs regulate diverse cellular processes in plants remain largely unknown. In this study, we have found that, unlike in animals, Arabidopsis PARP2 and PARG1 play the major roles in plant DNA damage and immune responses. In addition, we discover that PARP and PARP are also structurally distinct from their animal counterparts. As with plant PARP, plant PARG proteins are also functionally distinct from animal PARP proteins, suggesting the likelihood of substantial differences in regulation.
Synapse formation is essential for the construction of neural circuitry. In the nematode C. elegans, the synapse formation pathway is composed of the Pam/Highwire/RPM-1 ( PHR ) proteins. RPM-1 acts as a ubiquitin ligase to inhibit the DLK-1 and MLK-2 MAP kinase pathways. We have identified several kinases that are likely to form a new MAP kinases pathway that suppresses axon termination defects in mechanosensory neurons of rpm-1 mutants. These kinases localize to presynaptic terminals providing further evidence of a role in synapse development. Loss of MIG-15/JNK-1 signaling also suppresses defects in habituation to repeated mechanical stimuli, a behavioral deficit that is likely to arise from impaired glutamatergic synapse. Our findings provide the first potential link in the nervous system between the Mig-15 MAP4K and a JNK isoform.
The sex-determination protein TRA-1 is a conserved transcription factor that controls the expression of several genes in the germ line and male tail. However, it is not known if TRA-2 is a direct activator of any male genes, or if it is a co-activator of TRA-3. We show that TRR-1, the homolog of mammalian TRRAP ( TRansformation/tRanscription domain-Associated Protein ), acts as part of the Tip60 Histone Acetyl Transferase ( HAT ) complex to control germ cell fates in C. briggsae. Genetic and molecular experiments imply that it works with TRA- 1 to promote the transcription of genes like fog-3, a gene needed for spermatogenesis. Since TRR1 works through TRA-0, we show that it also regulates the development of the male tail, and that it is bipotential. Finally, we find that TRRs-1 also regulates spermaogenesis, and we show how TRR2 and FEM proteins control the expression and expression of fog-1. These findings suggest that TR-1 might be a bipotent regulator of the sex-determining pathway.
In the context of biological systems, it is important to understand how information is generated by a system. In this paper, we introduce two new measures, ΦE and ΦAR, that overcome these limitations and are easy to apply to time-series data. We use simulations to demonstrate the in-practice applicability of our measures, and to explore their properties. Our results provide new opportunities for examining information integration in real and model systems and carry implications for relations between integrated information, consciousness, and other neurocognitive processes.
Rhodesian human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a parasitic disease transmitted by tsetse flies. The disease is transmitted by the tsetes fly, and is fatal if untreated, although the speed of progression to death varies between the two forms. The spatial distribution of Rhodesian HAT in Uganda is not well understood, as do the environmental and climatic factors controlling the spatial distribution and spread of the disease. In this study, we used simple logistic regression methods to investigate the relationship between prevalence of Rhodesia HAT and several social, environmental, climatic and social factors. Using a spatial analysis in which a generalised linear geostatistical model is used in a Bayesian framework to account explicitly for spatial autocorrelation and incorporate uncertainty in input data and model parameters we are able to demonstrate a more rigorous analytical approach, potentially resulting in more accurate parameter and significance estimates and increased predictive accuracy, thereby allowing an assessment of the validity of the livestock movement hypothesis given more robust parameter estimation and appropriate assessment of covariate effects. Our results indicate that Rhodesian human African HAT was imported to the study area via the movement of untreated, infected livestock from endemic areas. The confounding effect of health care accessibility and the linkages between the disease's distribution and minimum land surface temperature have also been confirmed via the application of these methods.
In the seventies, the consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the Seventies, a result recently extended to ecologically-inspired networks. The approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium, i. e. with positive abundances. However, this key assumption has not been tested. We provide analytical results complemented by simulations which show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species-rich systems. This result leaves us in the uncomfortable situation in which the existence is far from granted. We extend our analyses by changing interaction structure and intensity, and find that feasibility and stability is warranted irrespective of species richness with weak interactions. Interestingly, we find that the dynamical behaviour of ecologically inspired architectures is very different and richer than that of unstructured systems. Our results suggest that a general understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture.
Coxiella burnetii, the etiological agent of Q fever, is a zoonotic pathogen which is found in livestock populations, although a wide range of other wild and domestic animals, birds, amphibians and arthropods can carry the bacterium. Despite its ubiquitous nature, significant gaps in our understanding of the epidemiology of this pathogen still remain, particularly in resource-poor settings. This study aimed to assess the spatial heterogeneity of C. burneti seropositivity in linked human and cattle populations in western Kenya, and to determine the socio-economic, demographic and environmental factors associated with exposure in both humans and animals. The results indicate that cattle and humans are at the lower end of the range of estimates reported elsewhere in Africa, based on a recent systematic review which included evidence from 51 previous studies, and are substantially lower than the seroprevalences recently reported in Western Kenya. These results highlight the importance of livestock markets in cattle exposure risk, and suggest that livestock markets may provide suitable targets for interventions in the future.
Schistosomiasis is one of the most important human helminthiases in terms of morbidity and mortality. It is endemic to 76 countries, affecting an estimated 200 million people with an additional 700 million people at risk of infection. Genome sequences of all three major schistosome species are now available, underscoring a pressing need to develop functional genomic approaches to identify the role and importance of these newly described genes. Vasa, a member of the ATP-dependent DEAD-box RNA helicase family, is a prototypic marker of primordial germ cells and the germ line in the Metazoa. Using bioinformatics and quantitative real time PCR, the three helicases exhibiting conserved motifs that characterize helicases of this family were identified in the S. mansoni genome. Moreover, three of the helicases exhibited vasa-like sequences; phylogenetic analysis confirmed the three vasa genes—termed Smvlg1, Smvlng2, and Smlvg3—were members of the Vasa/PL10 DEAD-Box subfamily. Whole mount in situ hybridization ( WISH ) analysis revealed that Smvlgg1, smvlg2 and Smvg3 were transcribed in the posterior ovary where the oocytes mature. Germ cell specific expression of schisto-like genes should provide an informative landmark for germ line transgenesis of schistsosomes, etiologic agents of major neglected tropical diseases.
Heart valve disease is a major clinical problem worldwide. Cardiac valve development and homeostasis need to be precisely controlled. The Hippo pathway is an evolutionarily conserved pathway from Drosophila to human which regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, stem cell fate determination and organ size in multiple organs and tissues. However, the molecular mechanism underlying valve maturation and homeasis remains incompletely understood. Here we found that VGLL4, a transcriptional co-repressor in the Hippo signaling pathway, is mainly expressed in endothelial cells at the post-EMT stage and was maintained till the adult stage. We further found that hyper proliferation of arterial valve interstitial cells was significantly constrained. These findings suggest that VGHL4 is important for valve development, and manipulation of Hippo components would be a potential therapy for preventing the progression of congenital valve disease.
In the past two years, large-scale data analyses have argued that soft selective sweeps are pervasive across organisms of very different effective population size and mutation rate—humans, Drosophila, and HIV. Yet, others have evaluated the relevance of these models to natural populations, as well as the identifiability of the models relative to other known population-level processes, arguing that soft sweeps are likely to be rare. Here, we examine three recent studies and their underlying methodologies. We find that all three examples are prone to extremely high false-positive rates, incorrectly identifying soft sweeps under both hard sweep and neutral models. Furthermore, we demonstrate that well-fit demographic histories combined with rare hard sweeps serve as the more parsimonious explanation. These findings represent a necessary response to the growing tendency of invoking parameter-heavy, assumption-laden models of pervasive positive selection, and neglecting best practices regarding the construction of proper demographic null models.
Female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are the principal vector for dengue fever, causing 50–100 million infections among humans per year. Aedes mosquitoes feed on human blood to obtain necessary nutrients for egg development and can feed on multiple hosts in their lifetime. To locate a host, female mosquitoes use a multi-sensory approach that includes detecting visual, olfactory, thermosensory, and gustatory cues to guide a series of behaviors collectively known as host-seeking behavior. A natural period of host inhibition occurs when female mosquitoes are no longer attracted to host stimuli for three days after a blood meal. We identified a candidate peptide receptor, Head Peptide-I, as a candidate receptor for sNPF neuropeptides that showed lower sensitivity to Head peptides. In this study, we identified NPYLR1 as a receptor sensitive to Head Peppide- I and sNPFs. We then showed that the receptor was also sensitive to a panel of peptide ligands. We conclude that other receptors, additional peptides, or both, regulate this important behavior.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the species of flat worms known as Schistosoma haematobium. It is widespread in Nigeria and has been estimated that 240 million people required treatment globally. The aim of this study is to identify the areas with suitable conditions for schistosome transmission on the basis of physical and environmental factors derived from satellite imagery and spatial analysis for Akure North Local Government Area ( LGA ) of Ondo State. Nigeria. This was done through methodology multicriteria evaluation ( MCE ) using Saaty’s analytical hierarchy process ( AHP ). AHP is a multi-criteria decision method that uses hierarchical structures to represent a problem and makes decisions based on priority scales. In this research AHP was used to obtain the mapping weight or importance of each individual schistoiasis risk factor. For the purpose of identifying areas of schistomiasis risk, this study focused on temperature, drainage, elevation, rainfall, slope, slope and land use/land cover as the factors controlling the incidence in the study area. The study also showed that one community ( Oba Ile ) had the lowest risk of schistsomiasis while the risk increased in the four remaining communities ( Iju, Igoba, Ita Ogbolu and Ogbese ). The predictions made by the model correlated strongly with observations from field study. The high risk zones corresponded to known endemic communities. This study revealed that environmental factors can be used in identifying and predicting the transmission of SchistOSomiasis as well as effective monitoring of disease risk.
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcal ) meningitis is a common bacterial infection of the brain. The cholesterol-dependent cytolysin pneumolysin represents a key factor, determining the neuropathogenic potential of the pneumococci. Here, we describe the occurrence of synaptic loss within the superficial layers of the frontal neocortex of post-mortem brain samples from individuals with pneumococococcal menINGitis. A similar effect was observed only when the bacteria expressed the pore-forming cholesterol-independent cytolysin pneumolysis. Exposure of acute mouse brain slices to only pore competent pneumolys at disease-relevant, non-lytic concentrations caused permanent dendritic swelling, dendrite spine elimination and synaptic loss. The NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists MK801 and D-AP5 reduced this pathology. Pneumolysin increased glutamate levels within the brain slices, leading to glutamate-dependent synaptic damage. Our findings demonstrate for the first time the presence of synaptic damage in pneumococcus pneumococitis and demonstrate that a bacterial cytozyme can dysregulate the control of glutamate in the brain, inducing excitotoxic damage.
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are small, non-enveloped, double stranded DNA viruses that infect the cutaneous and/or mucosal epithelium in many vertebrates. HPV infection is tightly linked to the differentiation of its host epithelial cells, with progeny virus only made in the terminally differentiating suprabasal compartment. It has long been recognized that HPV must first establish its infection within the basal layer of stratified epithelia, but why this is the case has not been understood. In part this restriction might reflect specificity of expression of entry receptors. However, this hypothesis could not fully explain the differentiation restriction of HPV infection, since many cell types can be infected with HPVs in monolayer cell culture. Here, we used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for establishing HPV infection. Using infectious HPV16 particles containing the intact viral genome, G1-synchronized human keratinocytes as hosts, and early viral gene expression as a readout for infection, we learned that the recipient cell must enter mitosis for HPV infection to take place. Late M phase inhibitors had no effect on infection, whereas early M phase cell cycle inhibitors efficiently prevented infection. These results provide one reason why HPVs initially establish their infection in the basal compartment of the stratified cell. These findings provide a new target mechanism for preventing initial HPV infection and blocking further spread.
Penicillium marneffei is the most important thermal dimorphic fungus causing systemic mycosis in China and Southeast Asia. While miRNAs are increasingly recognized for their roles in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in animals and plants, their potential roles in fungal dimorphism were largely unknown. Based on P. marneffi genome sequence, we hypothesize that miRNA-like RNAs ( milRNAs ) may be expressed in the dimorphics and may be involved in the regulation of thermal dimophism. In this study, we attempted to identify milRNas in P. Marneffeis in both mycelial and yeast phase using high-throughput sequencing technology. Sequence analysis revealed 24 potential milRNA candidates, including 17 candidates in mycelia and seven in yeast phase. Two genes, dcl-1 and qde-2, encoding putative Dicer-like proteins and the gene qde2, which encodes Argonaute-like protein, were identified in P. marnevoi. Phylogenetic analysis showed that dcl2 of P. mRNAs was more closely related to the homologues in other thermal dimo-pathogenic fungi than to Penicillia chrysogenum and Aspergillus spp.. Our findings provided the first evidence for differential expression of milRNA in different growth phases of thermal filamentous fungi and shed light on the evolution of fungal proteins involved in milRNA biogenesis and possible role of post-Transcriptional control in governing thermal dimmorphism.
Zika fever is an emerging vector borne disease caused by a single stranded RNA virus, Zika virus ( ZIKV ). The virus is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected vectors mainly Aedes mosquitoes. In 2013, Zika was detected in French Polynesia and spread through the Pacific region between 2013 and 2017. Several potential Aedes mosquito species and populations may have contributed to the emergence of this virus including Aedes aegypti, the main arbovirus vector in the region, and Aedes polynesiensis, vector of lymphatic filariasis and secondary vector of dengue virus. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of these two Pacific vectors to transmit ZIK. We collected three field populations of Ae. aelesi from New Caledonia and Samoa in order to evaluate and compare the vector competence of several populations of the main Pacific vector. Our results indicated a low transmission of the virus in the Pacific and suggest the importance of other factors such as the vector density, the mosquito lifespan or the large immunologically naive fraction of the population that may contribute to the rapid spread of the ZIK virus in this region during the 2013–2017 outbreak.
The long non-coding RNA ( lncRNA ) Xist is a master regulator of X-chromosome inactivation in mammalian cells. The structure of Xist depends on thermodynamically stable secondary and higher-order structures that RNAs can form in the context of a cell. Probing accessible RNA bases can provide data to build models of RNA conformation that provide insight into RNA function, molecular evolution, and modularity. To study the structure of the full-length Xist lnc RNA, we built upon recent advances in RNA secondary structure mapping and modeling to develop Targeted Structure-Seq, which combines chemical probing of RNA structure in cells with target-specific massively parallel sequencing. This approach allows us to probe the full length Xist RNA with relatively few sequencing reads, thus providing a targeted and scalable approach to analyze RNA conformations in cells. We use this approach to develop new models for functional elements within Xist, including the repeat A element in the 5’-end of the Xist LncRNA. This analysis also identified new structural elements in Xist that are evolutionarily conserved, including a new element proximal to the C repeats that is important for Xist function.
Genome-wide association studies have succeeded in uncovering many common genetic variants underlying complex diseases, raising hope for individualized risk prediction based on genomic profiles. However, it is controversial whether such tests will be useful clinically. Appropriate statistical measures to evaluate the performance of genetic risk prediction models are required. Previous studies have mainly focused on the use of the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve, or AUC, to judge the predictive value of genetic tests. In this study, we develop a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a large variety of predictive indices together. We show that, given the overall disease probability and the level of variance in total liability ( or heritability ) explained by the genetic variants, we can estimate analytically a large number of prediction metrics, for example the AUC, the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases, the net reclassification improvement ( ability to reclassify people into high- and low-risk categories ), the proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of population at the highest risk, the variance of predicted risks, and the risk at any percentile. The results from simulations match very well with our theoretical estimates. Finally we apply the methodology to nine complex diseases.
Trypanosoma brucei gambiense ( g-HAT ) is a vector-borne, neglected tropical disease, which puts 70 million people living in sub-Saharan African countries at risk. The card agglutination test for trypanosomiasis ( CATT ) has been the most widely used screening test for g-hAT, despite a number of practical limitations that were partially addressed by the introduction of rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ). However, current RDT’s are challenging to produce. To address this challenge, and to improve standardization and quality of manufacturing, a new RDT that is produced exclusively using recombinant antigens, the SD HAT BIOLINE 2. 0 ( “RDT2” ), has been developed in a partnership facilitated by the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics ( FIND ). Sensitivity of the tests was lower than previously reported, as they identified cases from partially overlapping sub-populations. Combining two or three tests resulted in a markedly increased sensitivity: When the SD BIOLine HAT was combined with the SDBIOLINE HAT, sensitivity reached 98. 4% in passive and 83. 0% in active screening. The recombinant antigen-based RDT was as sensitive as, but slightly less specific than CATT. While the practicality and cost-effectiveness of algorithms including several screening tests would need to be investigated, using two or more tests appears to enhance sensitivity of diagnostic algorithms, although some decrease in specificity is observed.
Chagas disease, a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of Latin Americans, has been effectively controlled in Guatemala after multiple rounds of indoor residual insecticide spraying ( IRS ). However, a few foci remain with persistent Triatoma dimidiata infestation. One such area is the municipality of Comapa, Department of Jutiapa, in the southeastern region of Guatemala, where control interventions appear less effective. We carried out three cross sectional entomological and serological surveys in Comapa to evaluate a decade of vector control activities. Baseline serological ( 1999 ) and entomology ( 2001–2 ) surveys were followed by three rounds of insecticide applications ( 2003–2005 ) and intermittent focal spraying of infested houses, until approximately 2012. Seroprevalence surveys were conducted in school-age children in 1999, 2007 and 2015, and in women of child bearing age ( 15–44 years ) only in 2015. After multiple rounds, the infestation index decreased significantly from 39% ( 2001-2 ) to 27% ( 2011 ). Household construction materials alone predicted <10% of infestation houses. The results presented are intended to guide public health officials in evaluation and possible revision of activities and goals for transmission elimination in such regions.
Citrobacter rodentium is a natural mouse pathogen that causes attaching and effacing ( A/E ) lesions in suckling mice. It shares a common virulence strategy with the clinically significant human A/ E pathogens enteropathogenic E. coli ( EPEC ) and enterohaemorrhagic ( EHEC ), and is widely used to model this route of pathogenesis. We previously reported the complete genome sequence of C. rodentium ICC168, where we found that the genome displayed many characteristics of a newly evolved pathogen. In this study, through whole genome sequencing of isolates showing variation, whole genome transcriptome analysis and examination of the mobile genetic elements, we determined the genome of the independently isolated strain EX-33 using 454 and Illumina sequence data to construct a combined de novo assembly. We sequenced an additional C. mouseium strain, EX-32, to reveal that the reference strain ICC168 is representative of the species and that most of the inactivating mutations were common to both isolates and likely to have occurred early on in the evolution of this pathogen, which is consistent with the emergence of other bacterial pathogens and provides evidence of continued functional gene loss in both of these bacteria.
Stochastic fluctuations in gene expression give rise to distributions of protein levels across cell populations. Despite a mounting number of theoretical models explaining stochasticity in protein expression, we lack a robust, efficient, assumption-free approach for inferring the molecular mechanisms that underlie the shape of protein distributions. Here we propose a method for determining sets of biochemical rate constants that govern chromatin modification, transcription, translation, and RNA and protein degradation. We find that most protein distributions are consistent with a large number of different biochemical rate constant sets. Despite this degeneracy, the solution space of rate constants almost always informs on underlying mechanism. For example, we distinguish between regimes where transcriptional bursting occurs from regimes reflecting constitutive transcript production. Our method agrees with the current standard approach, and in the restrictive regime where the standard method operates, also identifies rate constants not previously obtainable. Even without making any assumptions, we obtain estimates of individual biochemical rates and meaningful ratios of rates in 91% of tested cases. The framework developed here will be a powerful tool for deducing the contributions of particular molecular mechanisms to specific patterns of gene expression.
Monkeypox virus ( MPXV ) is an emerging orthopoxvirus zoonosis in the tropical rain forest of Africa and is endemic in the Congo-basin and sporadic in West Africa; it remains a tropical neglected disease of persons in impoverished rural areas. The global vaccination campaign that eradicated smallpox utilized vaccines that are also efficacious against MPX virus and was successful because there is no animal reservoir for variola. However, current vaccines are limited due to safety concerns. In this study, a new vaccination strategy based on three recombinant bovine herpesvirus 4 ( BoHV-4 ) vectors was tested in terms of protection from a lethal MPX challenge in STAT1 knockout mice. BoHVs-4-A-CMV-A29LgD106ΔTK, BoHv-4A-EF1α-M1RgD 106ΔWTK and BoH-4B6Rg6RGD106α-B6LgTK ) were successfully constructed by recombineering, and their capacity to express MPX antigens was demonstrated. The capacity of the BoHov-4 based vectors to elicit a protective immune response was compared to a smallpox vaccine known to induce little to no morbidity. Thus, we have established a starting point for the development of new vaccine-vector applications toward MPX and other human diseases.
The mRNA cap is the major mRNA decay pathway in many eukaryotes, including trypanosomes. After deadenylation, mRNAs are decapped by the nudix hydrolase DCP2 of the decapping complex and finally degraded by the 5’-3’ exoribonuclease XRNA. Uniquely, trypanOSomes lack homologues to all subunits of the mRNA decay complex, while the 5'-3' degradation is conserved. Here, I show that the parasites use an ApaH-like phosphatase ( ALPH1 ) as their major mRNA decapping enzyme. The protein was recently identified as a novel trypanomatid stress granule protein and as involved in mRNA binding. A fraction of ALPH 1 co-localises exclusively with the trypano-like protein XRNA to a special granule at the posterior pole of the cell, indicating a connection between the two enzymes. RNAi experiments show that recombinant, N-terminally truncated ALHP1 protein, but not a catalytically inactive mutant, sensitises the capped trypanoplastid spliced leader RNA to yeast Xrn1, but only if an RNA 5‘ polyphosphatase is included. This is the first reported function of an mRNA decapase, a bacterial-derived class of enzymes.
Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus ( T1DM ) is caused by an autoimmune reaction leading to the loss of insulin-producing β-cells resulting in chronic hyperglycemia. Current therapies allow a measure of control of blood glucose levels in patients with this condition. However, due to the difficulties encountered in maintaining appropriate glycemic levels, such patients exhibit an increased risk of vascular complications. Thus, in an effort to design improved protocols, current research efforts aim at elucidating the genetic programs underlying pancreatic endocrine cell lineage determination and/or reprogramming, an approach that could be of interest for the development of alternative therapies for diabetes.
The initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication is tightly regulated so that it occurs at most once per cell cycle. Preventing re-initiation throughout the genome is particularly challenging because re-replication can generate genomic alterations with extraordinary frequency. To minimize the probability of re-initiating from so many origins, cells use a battery of regulatory mechanisms that reduce the activity of replication initiation proteins. Given the global nature of these mechanisms, it has been presumed that all origins are inhibited identically. However, origins re-reinitiate with diverse efficiencies when these mechanisms are partially deregulated. Here, we identify novel elements that are necessary for preferential re-activation of two origins and sufficient to confer preferential reactivation on heterologous origins when the control of Re-ininitiation is partially inactivated. These elements do not enhance the S phase timing or efficiency of adjacent origins and thus are specifically acting as re-inspiration promoters ( RIPs ). We have mapped the two RIPs to ∼60 bp AT rich sequences that act in a distance- and sequence-dependent manner. We show that during the induction of re–initiation, Mcm2-7 reassociates both with origins that preferentially re-Initiate and origins that do not, suggesting that the RIP elements can overcome a block to re-introduction imposed after Mcm3-7 associates with origins. Our findings identify a local level of control in the block to Re-initication that is expected to drive some regions of the genome more susceptible to evolutionary change than others. Thus, the presence of a local layer of reregulation control provided by RIP-like elements may have far reaching ramifications on oncogenesis and evolution.
Invasive amebic diseases caused by Entamoeba histolytica are increasing among men who have sex with men and co-infection of ameba and HIV-1 is an emerging problem in developed East Asian countries. To characterize the clinical and epidemiological features of invasive amebiasis, the medical records of 170 HIV-infected cases were analyzed retrospectively, and E. histolyticica genotype was assayed in 14 cases. In this series of HIV patients, clinical presentation was similar to that described in the normal host. High fever, leukocytosis and high CRP were associated with extraluminal amebics. Two cases died from amebesic colitis ( resulting in intestinal perforation in one and gastrointestinal bleeding in one ) and three patients died from causes unrelated to amebi. Luminal treatment was successful in 83 patients following metronidazole or tinidazoles treatment. However, amebia recurred more frequently in those with HCV infection, which was recently reported to be transmittable sexually among MSM, and in those who acquired new syphilis during the follow-up period. The results emphasize the difficulty of preventing IA recurrence even after successful IA treatment in the high risk groups such as HIV-2-infecting MSM in Japan. The spread of this disease in other developed countries beyond Asia should be of great concern.
Gambian sleeping sickness or HAT ( human African trypanosomiasis ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense transmitted by riverine species of tsetse. A global programme aims to eliminate the disease as a public health problem by 2020 and stop transmission by 2030. In the Mandoul area, the focus of HAT is the Mandou area, where around 100 HAT cases were still diagnosed and treated annually until 2013. Pre-2014, control of sleeping sickness relied solely on case detection and treatment, which lead to a gradual decrease in the number of cases of Hats due to annual screening of the population. Because of the persistence of transmission and detection of new cases, we assessed whether the addition of vector control to case detection, treatment and surveillance could further reduce transmission and consequently, reduce annual incidence of Hat in Mandoul. We investigated the impact of deploying ‘tiny targets’ which attract and kill tsetes. Before tset se control commenced, a census of the human population was conducted and their settlements mapped. A pre-intervention survey of tse distribution and abundance was implemented in November 2013 and 2600 targets were deployed in the riverine habitats of tsetsse in early 2014, 2015 and 2016. The results demonstrate that tiny targets reduced the numbers of t setse in this focus, which may have interrupted transmission and that the combination of tatting and medical detection has played a major role in reducing in HAT incidence in 2014.
Imported strongyloidiasis is increasingly being diagnosed in non-endemic areas, especially in Spain, where information comes from short series of cases. The aim of this study was to describe the epidemiological, clinical and microbiological characteristics of patients with imported strongyloids in Spain. This is an observational retrospective study that included all patients diagnosed of strongyloidaliasis registered in the +REDIVI Collaborative Network from 2009 to 2017. Demographic, epidemiological and clinical information was collected, and extra information regarding microbiological techniques, treatment and follow-up was requested to participant centers. Overall, 1245 cases were included. Most of them were immigrants ( 66. 9% ), and South America was the most frequent area of origin. Detection of larvae in stool samples was observed in 21. 9 percent of the patients, and serological tests allowed making the diagnosis in the rest of the cases. Eosinophilia was present in 82. 2% of cases, and treatment with ivermectin ( compared with albendazole ) was the second most strongly associated factor to achieve the cure ( OR 2. 34 ). Given the long latency of the infection and the risk of developing a severe presentation, screening of S. stercoralis infection should be mandatory in patients coming from or had traveling to endemic areas, particularly in those with immunosuppressant conditions.
Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases. An important consideration in any vaccine formulation is the inoculum dose, i. e., amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen that is used. Higher doses generally lead to better stimulation of the immune response but might cause more severe side effects and allow for less population coverage in the presence of vaccine shortages. A combination of mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the optimal amount of inoculum for a given vaccine and setting. We illustrate the concept of using data and models to inform vaccine dose determination for vaccines, wby fitting a mathematical model to data from influenza A virus infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus ( HPIV ) infection of cotton rats at different inoculum doses. We use the model to map inoculum dosage to the level of immune protection and morbidity and to explore how such a framework might be used to determine an optimal inoculum.
In response to nitrogen deprivation, filaments of the cyanobacterium Anabaena undergo a process of development, resulting in a one-dimensional pattern of nitrogen-fixing heterocysts separated by about ten photosynthetic vegetative cells. Many aspects of gene expression before nitrogen deprivation and during the developmental process remain to be elucidated. We studied the statistics of fluctuations in gene expression of HetR, a transcription factor essential for heterocyst differentiation, both under steady-state growth in nitrogen-rich conditions and at different times following nitrogen deprivation. We found that expression fluctuations in nearby cells are coupled, with a characteristic spatial range of circa two to three cells, setting the scale for cellular interactions along a filament. Correlations between cells predominantly arise from intercellular molecular transfer and less from cell division. Fluctuations after nitrogen step-down can build up on those under nitrogen-replete conditions. We also found evidence of the participation of a cellular communication protein in setting these spatial correlations at specific times during development.
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a zoonotic flavivirus transmitted predominantly by Culex mosquitoes, but several other genera may participate in certain circumstances. Mosquitoes transmit JEV from a viremic vertebrate to a susceptible vertebrate including humans, birds, pigs and other mammals by bite. After infection by JEV-infected mosquitoes, many domestic and wild bird species demonstrate varying degrees of viremia sufficient to infect mosquitoes and are thus considered the amplifying hosts for JEV transmission. To gain an insight into the reasons for this JEV genotype shift, the replication kinetics of seven recently-isolated JEV isolates including three GI strains and four GIII strains were compared in mosquito C6/36 cells, chicken fibroblast cells ( DF-1 ) and porcine iliac artery endothelial cells ( PIEC ). We observed that GI strains replicated more efficiently than GIII viruses in DF and PIEC cells. GI strains also displayed a comparatively longer viremium duration than G III strains. These results suggest co-circulation of GI and GIII infections with GI infection dominant in pigs, confirming the genotype change in China.
Candida albicans is a fungal commensal of the human gastrointestinal tract with the potential to cause both superficial mucosal and life-threatening invasive infections. As one of the most important human fungal pathogens, this work has informed our understanding of the pathobiology as well as fundamental paradigms of fungal infection biology. One approach that has not been widely utilized in the study of C. albican is genetic interaction or epistasis analysis. This approach allows the development of functional models and networks that inform the assessment of complex multi-genic phenotypes and processes. Here, we describe an analysis of the biofilm TF network using both simple and complex haploinsufficiency. We found that the network TFs all show a highly interdependent ‘small-world’ network that is highly efficient but not robust. In addition, we have found that TEC1 represents a network component whose expression is highly sensitive to small perturbations in the function of other networks TFs. We have also found that expression of ROB1 is dependent on both auto-regulation and cooperative interactions with other network TF. Finally, the heterozygous NDT80 deletion mutant is hyperfilamentous under both biofilm and hyphae-inducing conditions. Taken together, genetic interaction analysis of this network has provided new insights into the functions of individual TFs and the role of the overall network topology in its function.
Asparagine ( Asn ) is the last nonessential amino acid to be synthesised from glucose metabolism, contrasting with the other 19 common amino acids. In many pathogenic microorganisms, functional studies on L-asparaginase and Asn transporters have implicated Asn metabolism in survival, invasion and/or virulence. Asparagine synthetase ( AS ) is another key player in Asn synthesis, it catalyses Asn formation from aspartate in an ATP dependent manner using ammonia or glutamine as nitrogen donors. However, AS-A is not essential for parasite survival, growth or infectivity in normal in vitro and in vivo conditions. Therefore, we have identified AS as a suitable drug target against Trypanosoma spp. and L. donovani.
Toxocariasis is a parasitic zoonosis caused by the larvae of Toxocara spp., the common roundworms of dogs and cats, respectively. The parasite can migrate to any organ through the circulatory system, from where they disseminate via the systemic circulation, especially to muscles, optic nerves and, in rare cases, the central nervous system. The majority of infections remain undiagnosed due to the asymptomatic, mild or non-specific clinical nature of infections. Two severe conditions, visceral larva migrans ( VLM ) and ocular larva migrationans ( OLM ), have been reported in the last years. The association between epilepsy and toxocara seropositivity is still debated. In this study, we performed a systematic literature review and a meta-analysis of all the available data, finding a positive association between toxocaras spp and epilepsy. A positive association was constantly reported in a restricted analysis ( WB as confirmatory or diagnostic test, younger population, and population–based studies ). Meta-regression showed no statistically significant association between covariates and outcome. This study provides epidemiological evidence of the association between ToxOCara spps and epilepsy and provides new evidence for the association, mainly population-based studies. Further research should be performed to understand the physiopathological mechanisms of toxocaria-associated epilepsy.
DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are a major cause of cell death and tumor development. The DNA damage response ( DDR ) plays an essential role in determining cell fate after DNA double strand breaks. ATM plays a hierarchical role in the DDR by modulating the biogenesis of a subset of miRNAs by phosphorylating specific serines or threonines on downstream protein substrates. We describe a new ATM–mediated DDR pathway involving microRNA ( miRNA ) : irradiation ( IR ) activates miR-335, a miRNA that targets CtIP, which is an important trigger of DNA end resection in homologous recombination repair ( HRR ). We demonstrate that this new pathway modulates the DDR via the down-regulating of the miRNA. We show that this pathway impacts upon BRCA1 foci formation and BRCC1 retention at DSB sites, cell cycle checkpoint regulation, DNA repair, and cell survival. Our findings strongly suggest that an ATM–dependent CREB–miR-333–CtIP axis influences the selection of HRR for repair of certain DSB lesions.
When it comes to interpreting others' behaviour, we almost irrepressibly engage in the attribution of mental states ( beliefs, emotions, intentions ). Such "mentalizing" can become very sophisticated, eventually endowing us with highly adaptive skills such as convincing, teaching or deceiving. Here, we test whether such sophisticated mentalizing can be captured in terms of the depth of our recursive beliefs, as in "I think that you think that I think…". We asked participants to play repeated games against artificial ( Bayesian ) mentalizing agents, which differ in their sophistication. Critically, we made people believe either that they were playing against each other, or that they had gambling like in a casino. Although both framings are similarly deceiving, participants win against the artificial ( sophisticated ) mentalizers in the social framing of the task, and lose in the non-social framing. Moreover, we find that participants' choice sequences are best explained by sophisticated cognitiveizing Bayesian learning models only in the context of repeated social interactions. Importantly, our results show that we would not be able to decipher intentional behaviour without a priori attributing mental states to others.
Biological networks provide additional information for the analysis of human diseases, beyond the traditional analysis that focuses on single variables. Gaussian graphical model ( GGM ), a probability model that characterizes the conditional dependence structure of a set of random variables by a graph, has wide applications in the analysis. However, existing approaches are either not statistically rigorous or are inefficient for high-dimensional data that include tens of thousands of variables for making inference. In this study, we propose an efficient algorithm to implement the estimation of GGM and obtain p-value and confidence interval for each edge in the graph. Through simulation studies, we demonstrate that the algorithm is faster by several orders of magnitude than the current implemented algorithm for Ren et al. without losing any accuracy. Then, we apply our algorithm to two real data sets: transcriptomic data from a study of childhood asthma and proteomic data of healthy samples. The resulting networks reveal interesting interactions and the differential networks between cases and controls show functional relevance to the diseases.
Striatal medium spiny neurons ( MSNs ) are the only cells which inhibit each other through a local network of collaterals, receive excitatory projections from the cerebral cortex, and are often thought to act selectively, transmitting the most active cortical inputs downstream in the BG while suppressing others. However studies show that local MSN network connections are too sparse and weak to perform global selection and their function remains puzzling. Striatal MSNs form cell assemblies whose population firing rates vary coherently on slow behaviourally relevant timescales. It has been shown that such activity emerges only in a model of a local MSNs network but only at realistic connectivities of and only when MSN generated inhibitory post-synaptic potentials ( IPSPs ) are realistically sized. Here we investigate how this activity is generated. We find that at unrealistically high connectivity a stable winners-take-all type regime is found where network activity separates into fixed stimulus dependent regularly firing and quiescent components. In this regime only a small number of population firing rate components interact with cortical stimulus variations. Around connectivity a transition to a more dynamically active regime occurs where all cells constantly switch between activity and quiecence. We also find that the network dynamics are highly reproducible in the transition regime. Thus, we suggest that the local MSNS network has optimal characteristics – it is neither too stable to respond in a dynamically complex temporally extended way to cortical variations, nor is it too unstable to respond to a consistent repeatable way. Rather, it is optimized to generate stimulus dependent activity patterns for long periods after variations in cortical excitation.
Polarized growth is maintained by both polarized exocytosis, which transports membrane components to specific locations on the cell cortex, and endocytotic, which retrieves these components before they can diffuse away. Despite functional links between these two transport pathways, they are generally considered to be separate events. Using live cell imaging, in vivo and in vitro protein binding assays, and in vivo pyrene-actin polymerization assays we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p couples polarized exotosis with cortical actin polymerizing, which induces endocytic membrane internalization. After polarized cell growth proceeds during the yeast cell cycle, the polarized delivery of sec4p directly interacts with Las17/Bee1p ( yeast Wiskott—Aldrich Syndrome protein ), which is required for cortical assembly of cortical actins. Activated Sec4P promotes actin patch formation and triggers compensatory endocytotic internalization, which controls surface expansion and kinetically refines cell polarization.
Acetaminophen-induced liver injury in mice is a model for drug-induced hepatic injury in humans. A precondition for improved strategies to disrupt and/or reverse the damage is a credible explanatory mechanism for how toxicity phenomena emerge and converge to cause hepatic necrosis. The Target Phenomenon is that necrosis begins adjacent to the lobule’s central vein ( CV ) and progresses outward. An explanatory mechanism remains elusive. Evidence supports that location dependent differences in NAPQI ( the reactive metabolite ) formation within hepatic lobules are necessary and sufficient prerequisites to account for that phenomenon. We call that the NZ-mechanism hypothesis. Challenging that hypothesis is infeasible because 1 ) influential variables cannot be controlled, and 2 ) it would require sequential intracellular measurements at different lobular locations within the same mouse. Virtual hepatocytes use independently configured periportal-to-CV gradients to exhibit lobule-location dependent behaviors. Employing NZ-Mechanism achieved quantitative validation targets for acetaminophen clearance and metabolism but failed to achieve the Target Phenome. We posited that, in order to do so, at least one additional feature must exhibit zonation by decreasing in the CV direction. We instantiated and explored two alternatives: 1 ) a glutathione depletion threshold diminishes in theCV direction; and 2 ( ) ability to repair mitochondrial damage diminishes. Inclusion of one or the other feature into NZ-MEchanism failed to accomplish the Target phenomenon. However, inclusion of both features enabled successfully achieving the Target phenotype. The merged mechanism provides a multilevel, multiscale causal explanation of key temporal features of acetaminoproteins hepatotoxicity in mice.
Chagas or American Trypanosomiasis is a parasitic disease that affects around 8–10 million people in Latin America. The Chagas congenital transmission infection is increasing its epidemiological importance, because, according to epidemiological studies, more than 15, 000 new infected babies are expected each year, and besides, the migration of T. cruzi infected women to North America and Europe, makes the ChagAS congenital infection a worldwide health problem. The parasite burden of infants born to infected mothers depends on the detection of parasites by microscopic blood examination ( INP micromethod ), and/or the persistence of antibodies ( T.cruzi specific antibody titers ) at 10–12 months of age. We have previously demonstrated that the parasite burden in some children ( 22 out of 51 ) is below the detection limit of the INP Micrometod. This study is the first to quantify parasitemia levels in more than 50 children congenitally infected with Trypanotoma cruzi, at three different diagnostic controls during one-year follow-up after delivery. Our results show that the burden of some children is not significantly different from that of non-pregnant women, but that more sensitive parasitological diagnosis methods should be developed to assure an early T. cruzi congenital diagnosis.
The rRNA operons of E. coli are unique in the sense that a wild-type ( WT ) cell carries seven copies of this operon per chromosome ( other bacteria have copy numbers ranging between 1 and 15 ). This copy number also appears to be selectively maintained. In this study, we propose a biophysical model of E. coli that predicts growth rate and an effective cellular composition from an effective, coarse-grained representation of its genome. Using the model, we were able to reproduce these measurements. We show that the model that best fits these data suggests that the volume fraction of macromolecules inside E. Coli is not fixed when the rRN operon copy number is varied. Moreover, the model predicts that increasing the copy number beyond seven results in a cytoplasm densely packed with ribosomes and proteins. Assuming that under such overcrowded conditions prolonged diffusion times tend to weaken binding affinities, we predict that growth rate will not increase substantially beyond the wild- type growth rate, as indicated by other experiments. Our model therefore suggests that changing the rRNA-to-protein ratio does not substantially increase their growth rate.
The plant hormone abscisic acid ( ABA ) is induced by abiotic stresses, and plays essential roles in plant responses and adaptation to those stresses, in addition to regulating several developmental processes, including seed germination and dormancy and germination, seedling growth, and floral transition. RADIALIS-LIKE SANT/MYB 1 ( RSM1 ) belongs to a MYB-related subfamily, and previous transcriptome analysis suggests that RSM 1 may play roles in various biological processes, such as plant development, stress responses and plant hormone signaling. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the roles of RSM in these processes remain obscure. In this study, we show that down-regulation or up-regulation of the expression of R SM1 alters the sensitivity of seed germinating, post-germination development to ABA and abiotic stress responses, and seedling tolerance to salinity. RSM2 and HY5 HOMOLOG ( HYH ) regulate the expression and ABI5-downstream ABA responses, thereby improving the adaption of plants to the environment.
Mitochondrial complex I ( proton-pumping NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase ) is a very large membrane integral multiprotein complex found in most energy converting membranes of bacteria and eukaryotes. It plays a central role in cellular energy metabolism, and complex I defects have been implicated in a number of bioenergetic diseases including major neurodegenerative disorders and biological aging. Here, we report that upon deletion of the gene for a small accessory subunit of the Yarrowia complex I, a stable subcomplex ( nb8mΔ ) is formed that lacks the distal part of the membrane domain as revealed by single particle analysis. The analysis of the subunit composition of holo and subcomplex by three complementary proteomic approaches revealed that two ( ND4 and ND5 ) of the three subunits with homology to bacterial Mrp-type Na+/H+ antiporters that have been discussed as prime candidates for harbouring the proton pumps were missing in nb 8mΛ. Nevertheless, nb6mΓ still pumps protons at half the stoichiometry of the complete enzyme. Our results provide evidence that the membrane arm of complex I harbours two functionally distinct pump modules that are connected in series by the long helical transmission element recently identified by X-ray structural analysis.
Fever is an initial, nonspecific, acute-phase response to infections, and is a key factor in improving survival and shortening disease duration. Fever-inducing infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue are the focus of intensive clinical and in vitro studies. Fever is a regulated increase of the body temperature resulting from both infectious and non-infectious causes, but the potential of febrile temperatures in regulating antigen binding affinity to antibodies has not been explored. Here we investigated this process under in vitro conditions using Isothermal Titration Calorimetry ( ITC ) and ELISA. We used selected antibodies against specific monoclonal antibodies, and observed a marked increase in the affinity constant of these antibody-antigen complexes at 40°C, compared to physiological ( 37°C ) or pathophysiological temperatures ( 42°C ). Induced thermal equilibration of the protein partners at these temperatures in vitro, prior to measurements, further increased their binding affinity. These results suggest another positive and adaptive role for fever in vivo, and highlight the favourable role of thermal priming in enhancing protein-protein affinity for samples with limited availability.
Cortical flow is a fundamental and ubiquitous form of cellular deformation that underlies cell polarization, cell division, cell motility and multicellular tissue morphogenesis. Cortical flows originate within a thin layer of cross-linked actomyosin filaments and myosin motors, in which active stress produced by motor activity is opposed by passive resistance to network deformation. Continuous flow requires local remodeling through crosslink unbinding and/or filament disassembly. However, how local remodel tunes stress production and dissipation, and how this in turn shapes long range flow, remains poorly understood. Here, we use computer simulations to explore how this interplay can be tuned to shape long range cortical flow. We show that filament turnover is required to maintain active stress against external resistance and steady state flow in response to external stress. We model filament turnover by allowing entire filaments to appear with a fixed probability per unit area and disappear with fixed probabilities per unit time. Our model predicts that filament lifetimes are shorter than both τc and τm, such that flow speed is insensitive to filament turnover, and shows a simple dependence on motor activity and crosslink dynamics. Our results provide a framework for understanding how animal cells tune cortical flow through local control of network remodeling.
Seedling establishment is inhibited on media containing high levels ( ∼6% ) of glucose or fructose. Genetic loci that overcome the inhibition of seedling growth on high sugar have been identified using natural variation analysis and mutant selection, providing insight into sugar signaling pathways. In this study, a quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) analysis was performed for seedling sensitivity to high sugar in a Col/C24 F2 population of Arabidopsis thaliana. A glucose and fructose-sensing QTL, GSQ11, was mapped through selective genotyping and confirmed in near-isogenic lines in both Col and C24 backgrounds. Allelism tests and transgenic complementation showed that the sugar-sensitive C24 ANAC060 allele confers sugar insensitivity and was dominant over the sugar sensitive C24 allele. The nuclear presence of the ANAC60 protein attenuates sugar-induced ABA accumulation, rendering seedlings insensitive to sugars. Thus, the sugar signaling pathway induces the expression of the sugar sensor ANAC120 through ABI4, but the nuclear presence prevents sugar-ABA signaling, rendering seeds insensitive to sugar.
Cyclic di-GMP ( c-di-gMP ) is a small molecule that is freely diffusible in the bacterial cytoplasm. It has emerged as a key intracellular signaling molecule regulating a plethora of key behaviors, like the transition from planktonic cells to biofilm communities. The striking multiplicity of functions and regulated cellular functions raised the question of signaling specificity. Here, we show an example of how c-dynamic di-gmp signaling can reach specificity through the interaction with a molecular network regulating important P. aeruginosa behaviors. We show that the HptB pathway controls biofilm formation and motility by involving both HsbD and the anti-sigma factor HsbA. We propose that the rewiring of c-DGCs, HsbB-HsbA and HsbC, is dependent on the original interaction between Hsb and the Gac/Rsm cascade and on the control of Hsb-D dynamic localization at the cell poles.
When interacting with the world around us, we largely depend on prior knowledge about the structure of the world and the relationships between the sensory signals resulting from it in order to choose the appropriate action to achieve our goal. This prior knowledge is not necessarily fixed. Rather, through experience we can learn new perceptual and sensorimotor relationships. For instance, when wearing magnifying glasses, the way in which we perceive objects to our left more to the left and objects to the right more to our right will change. However, we easily adapt our behaviour to this changed relationship in a relatively short amount of time. In the present study, we investigated how learning and generalisation occurs for associations with a task-relevant property of the target in a rapid pointing task. We found that, although learning the associations requires explicit awareness of the cues’ role, participants apply the mapping corresponding to the trained shape that is most similar to the current one, consistent with the Bayesian learning model. Furthermore, we found a good correspondence between this model and the empirical results indicating that this model poses a possible mechanism for simultaneously learning multiple visuomotor mappings.
The cerebellum is a central organ of the brain and is responsible for the execution of motor tasks. The cerebellus is composed of two input channels: ( 1 ) the mossy fibers ( MF ) carrying information from many brain regions and thought to provide contextual information e. g. regarding sensory input from different modalities as well as ongoing motor activity and proprioceptive information, and ( 2 ) the so-called climbing fibers ( CFs ). The inferior olivary nucleus ( IO ) provides one of the two main inputs to the cerebellom: the so called climbing fibers. Activation of climbing fibers is generally believed to be related to timing of motor commands and/or motor learning. However, previous results from in vitro studies suggested that the information encoded in the climbing fiber burst is related to the occurrence of the spike relative to the ongoing sub-threshold membrane potential oscillation of the oivary cell, i. e. that the phase-dependency of the oscillation is reflected in the size of the spiking fiber burst. We used a detailed three-compartmental model of an inferior cell to further investigate the possible factors determining the size and the information it potentially carries. Our findings suggest that the amplitude of the burst size is present but limited and that charge flow between soma and dendrite is a major determinant of the climbing-fiber burst size.
Iron is essential for all known life due to its redox properties; however, these same properties can also lead to its toxicity in overload through the production of reactive oxygen species. Robust systemic and cellular iron regulation is required to maintain safe levels of iron, and the liver seems to be where this regulation is mainly located. Iron misregulation is implicated in many diseases, and as our understanding of iron metabolism improves, the list of iron-related disorders grows. Recent developments have resulted in greater knowledge of the fate of iron in the body and have led to a detailed map of its metabolism; however a quantitative understanding at the systems level of how its components interact to produce tight regulation remains elusive. A mechanistic computational model of human liver iron metabolism was constructed based on known mechanisms of regulation and on their kinetic properties, obtained from several publications. The model was then quantitatively validated by comparing its results with previously published physiological data, and it is able to reproduce multiple experimental findings. A time course simulation following an oral dose of iron was compared to a clinical time course study and the simulation was found to recreate the dynamics and time scale of the systems response to iron challenge. A disease state simulation of haemochromatosis was created by altering a single reaction parameter that mimics a human haemoxin gene ( HFE ) mutation. This model supports and supplements understanding of the role of the liver as an iron sensor and provides a framework for further modelling, including simulations to identify valuable drug targets and design of experiments to improve further our knowledge of this system.
The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) is the exclusive gateway of material transport across the nuclear envelope ( NE ). The NPC acts as a freeway for passive diffusion of molecules and ions smaller than ∼5 nm, while actively controlling and facilitating the transport of larger cargos up to about 39–40 nm, by discriminating between inert and karyopherin-bound cargoes. The transport mechanism remains elusive. Central to the transport process is the hydrophobic interactions between karyophersins ( kaps ) and Phe-Gly ( FG ) repeat domains. Taking into account the polymeric nature of FG-repeats grafted on the elastic structure of the NPC, and the kap-FG hydrophobobic affinity, we have established a coarse-grained model of NPC structure that mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport. The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2. 6±0. 13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations. Moreover, the cargo is primarily attached to the channel wall where it interacts with the FG-layer as it passes through the central channel. The kaps-FG interaction is highly dynamic and fast, which ensures an efficient translocation through the NPC. Further, almost all eight hydrophilic binding spots on kap are occupied simultaneously during transport. Finally, as opposed to intact NPCs, cytoplasmaic filaments-deficient NPCs show a high degree of permeability to inert cargo. Our results show the defining role of cytoplytic filaments in the selectivity barrier.
The nonhuman primate ( NHP ) model is often the best experimental model for testing interventions designed to block infection by human pathogens, such as HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria. A physiological model may require the use of a limiting infectious dose of the infectious agent, where only a fraction of animals become infected upon any given challenge. Determining the challenge dose of a pathogen in such experiments is critical to the success of the experiment: using too-high or too-low a challenge dose may lead to false negative results and an excessive use of animals. Here I define an optimized protocol for defining the dose of pathogen that infects 50% of the time ( AID50 ) ; other challenge doses, e. g. AID80, can be easily calculated from the same data. This protocol minimizes the number of animals, as well as resources and procedures, while providing an estimate of the AID100 within 1. 5-fold of the true value.
In order to encode natural signals, the nervous system must constantly adapt its neural representation to changes in the sensory environment, often on multiple time scales. Here, we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron ( AN2 ) of crickets. We characterize the response of the AN2 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities. The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds. We then address the question whether adaptation leads to an improvement of the signal's representation and compare the experimental results with the predictions of two competing hypotheses: infomax, which predicts that information conveyed about the entire signal range should be maximized while “background” signals should be selectively suppressed. The response curve changes are also not consistent with the selective coding hypothesis, because the amount of information conveyed by the loudest part of the stimulus does not increase as predicted but remains nearly constant. Less information is transmitted about signals with lower intensity.
Prions are infectious proteinaceous particles that cause fatal neurodegenerative diseases, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ( CJD ), bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( BSE ), and chronic wasting disease ( CWD ). Prions contain PrPSc, a protease-resistant detergent-insoluble β-sheet-rich conformer of the normal cellular protein PrPC. PrPsc is essential and possibly the sole component of infectious prions. By serial protein misfolding cyclic amplification ( sPMCA ), prion infectivity can be propagated in vitro. However, the mechanisms of binding and conversion remain unclear. We engineered prion proteins lacking one or both polybasic domains expressed from Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells as substrates in serial protein Misfolding Cyclic amplification reactions. After ∼5 rounds of sPMA, PrP Sc molecules lacking the central polybasic domain ( ΔC ) were formed. Surprisingly, ΔC-PrPSc prions could bind to and induce quantitative conversion of all the polybasic mutant substrates into PrPPSc molecules. Remarkably, ΔPPsc molecules displayed diminished or absent biological infectivity relative to wild-type prions, despite their ability to seed s PMCA reactions of normal mouse brain homogenate. Thus, ΔCs are universally required for prion propagation.
Animals are able to reach a desired state in an environment by controlling various behavioral patterns. Identification of the behavioral strategy used for this control is important for understanding animals’ decision-making and is fundamental to dissect information processing done by the nervous system. However, methods for quantifying such behavioral strategies have not been fully established. In this study, we developed an inverse reinforcement-learning ( IRL ) framework to identify an animal’s behavioral strategy from behavioral time-series data. We applied our IRL framework to C. elegans thermotactic behavior; after cultivation at a constant temperature with or without food, fed worms prefer, while starved worms avoid the cultivation temperature on a thermal gradient. We found that the fed worms used both the absolute temperature and its temporal derivative and that their behavior involved two strategies: directed migration ( DM ) and isothermal migration ( IM ). With DM, worms efficiently reached specific temperatures, which explains their thermotaxis behavior when fed. With IM, worms moved along the constant temperature, which reflects isothermal tracking, well-observed in previous studies. We propose that DM and IM generate exploitative and explorative behaviors, respectively: the worms, via DM, exploit the cultivation Temperature, and at the same time explore possible alternative rewards ( food ) in different temperatures through IM. Thus, our I-RL-based approach is useful in identifying animal strategies from behavioral data and could be applied to a wide range of behavioral studies, including decision-makers, in other organisms.
Haptophytes are important in global carbon sequestration, form destructive harmful blooms, and serve as a highly nutritive food source to a broad range of eco-cohorts. Haptophyte dominance in both fresh and marine waters is supported by the mixotrophic nature of many taxa. Despite their importance the nuclear genome sequence of only one haptophyte, Emiliania huxleyi ( Isochrysidales ), is available. Here we report the draft genome of Chrysochromulina tobin ( Prymnesiales ) and transcriptome data collected at seven time points over a 24-hour light/dark cycle. The nuclear genome of C. tobin is small ( 59 Mb ), compact ( ∼40% of the genome is protein coding ) and encodes approximately 16, 777 genes. Genes important to fatty acid synthesis, modification, and catabolism show distinct patterns of expression when monitored over the circadian photoperiod. The C.tobin genome harbors the first hybrid polyketide synthase/non-ribosomal peptide synthases gene complex reported for an algal species, and encores potential anti-microbial peptides and proteins involved in multidrug and toxic compound extrusion. A new haptophagous haptoprotein was also identified, together with two “red” RuBisCO activases that are shared across many algal lineages. The Chrysechromuline tobin genome sequence provides new information on the evolutionary history, ecology and economic importance of haptosome.
Breast cancers that are “triple-negative” for the clinical markers ESR1, PGR, and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype. Defective Rb, p53, and Brca1 pathways are each associated with triple-negative and Basal–like subtypes. Our mouse genetic studies demonstrate that the combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution. Furthermore, concomitant reduction of all three pathways in mammary epithelium has an additive effect on tumor latency and predisposes highly penetrant, metastatic adenocarcinomas. The tumors are poorly differentiated and have histologic features that are common among human BRCA1-mutated tumors, including heterogeneous morphology, metaplasia, necrosis, and genomic instability. Gene expression analyses demonstrate that these tumors share attributes of both Basal and Claudin-low signatures, two molecular subtypes encompassed by the broader, triple-positive class defined by clinical markers. Our findings illustrate the compounding effect of acquiring multiple tumor suppressor mutations during tumor evolution and underscore the distinct requirements of each of these canonical tumor suppressors.
Aedes aegypti ( L. ) is the primary vector of dengue, the most important arboviral infection globally. Until an effective vaccine is licensed and rigorously administered, Ae. aedesi control remains the principal tool in preventing and curtailing dengues transmission. Accurate predictions of vector populations are required to assess control methods and develop effective population reduction strategies. In this study, we used a regression model to estimate pupal productivity at the individual container level. We found that containers in close proximity to other larval habitats will have a greater probability of being productive and a greater abundance of pupae than containers that are relatively isolated from other development sites. The productivity of most container types increased significantly as habitat density increased. An ecological approach, accounting for larval habitat density, is appropriate for predicting Ae. Aegyptis population levels and developing efficient vector control programs.
Animals integrate external cues with information about internal conditions such as metabolic state to execute the appropriate behavioral and developmental decisions. Information about food quality and quantity is assessed by the intestine and transmitted to modulate neuronal functions via mechanisms that are not fully understood. Here we show that the conserved Target of Rapamycin complex 2 ( TORC2 ) coordinates larval development and adult behaviors in response to environmental cues and feeding state in the bacterivorous nematode C. elegans. During development, pheromone, bacterial food, and temperature regulate expression of the daf-7 TGF-β and daf28 insulin-like peptide in sensory neurons to promote a binary decision between reproductive growth and entry into the alternate dauer larval stage. We also find that genetic variation affects food-dependent larval and adult phenotypes, and identify quantitative trait loci ( QTL ) associated with these traits. Together, these results suggest that intestinal TORC 2 acts as a hub for communication of feeding state information from the gut to the brain, thereby contributing to modulation of neuronal function by internal state.
Pluripotent stem cells are a remarkable model for the study of early development and hold promise as a source for cell replacement therapies. To successfully manipulate ES cells in culture, it is important to understand the mechanisms by which ES cells maintain their self renewal and pluripotency. The increasing availability of whole genome sequences and high-throughput experimental methods, such as microarrays, have led to the development of systematic approaches for deciphering transcriptional regulation. We developed a novel algorithm, CompMoby, which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression. We show that several of the predicted motifs are novel regulatory elements of gene expression in mouse and human ES cells, and that the transcription factor NF-Y binds to one of the motifs, is differentially expressed during ES cell differentiation, and is required for ES cell proliferation. Our results suggest that this systematic approach can be broadly applied to understanding transcriptional networks in mammalian species.
The replication of non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses requires the continuous supply of the nucleoprotein ( N ) in the form of a complex with the phosphoprotein. Here, we present the structural characterization of a soluble, heterodimeric complex between a variant of vesicular stomatitis virus N lacking its 21 N-terminal residues ( NΔ21 ) and a peptide of 60 amino acids ( P60 ) encompassing the molecular recognition element ( MoRE ) of P that binds RNA-free N ( N0 ). The complex crystallized in a decameric circular form, which was solved at 3. 0 Å resolution, reveals how the MoRE folds upon binding to N and competes with RNA binding and N polymerization. Small-angle X-ray scattering experiment and NMR spectroscopy on the soluble complex confirms the binding of the NRE and indicates that its flanking regions remain flexible in the complex. The structure of this complex also suggests a mechanism for the initiation of viral RNA synthesis by the viral polymerase.
In the visual system of the blowfly Calliphora vicina, the neurons in the vertical-system network, which play a key role in visual processing, primarily connect to each other via axonal gap junctions. This network therefore provides a unique opportunity to explore the functional role of gap junction in sensory information processing. Our information theoretical analysis of a realistic VS network model shows that within 10 ms following the onset of the visual input, the presence of axonal GJs enables the VS system to efficiently encode the axis of rotation, θ, of the fly’s ego motion. This encoding efficiency, measured in bits, is near-optimal with respect to the physical limits of performance determined by the statistical structure of the dendritic input itself. We further demonstrate that this efficient encoding of motion by this subpopulation is necessary for the fly's visually guided behavior, such as banked turns in evasive maneuvers. Our study provides new insights as to how specific network connectivity leads to efficient information transmission in both the periphery ( retina, shown in ) and in neocortical L2/3 inhibitory interneuron networks.
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the major causative agents of hand, foot, and mouth disease, a common febrile disease affecting mainly young children; however, EV71 has been also associated with various neurological diseases including fatal cases in large EV71 outbreaks particularly in the Asia Pacific region. Recently we identified human P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ( PSGL-1 ) as a cellular receptor for entry and replication of EV71 in leukocytes. We have previously shown that the N-terminal region of human PSGL ( amino acids 42–61 ) containing a potential O-glycosylation residue ( T57 ) and three potential tyrosine sulfation sites ( Y46, Y48, and Y51 ) is critical for binding of PSGL to EV71-PB. We generated a series of mutants and identified the post-translational modifications that are critical for PSGL–binding to the EV71 receptor. We also demonstrated that sulfation of tyrosines, but not O-glucosylation, is not necessary for binding to the cell surface of PSG-1. Furthermore, a sulfation inhibitor, sodium chlorate, blocked the PSGL+1–EV71 interaction and inhibited virus entry into Jurkat T cells in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, the results presented in this study reveal that tyrosin sulfation is critical in the binding of P-Selectin to PSGL, and that PSGL binding to EV 71 is mediated by a specific cellular receptor, CCR5.
Leishmaniasis is a serious global health problem affecting many people worldwide. While patients can be treated with several agents, drug toxicicty and the emergence of resistant strains render available treatments ineffective in the long run. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of several mTOR inhibitors in controlling infection with Leishmania major. Rapamycin, GSK-2126458 and KU-0063794 were administered to BALB/c mice, which had received an intrafootpad injection of the parasite. Footpad swelling and parasite burden were assessed, and cytokine production by mouse splenocytes and phenotypic changes in draining lymph node cells were evaluated. Treatment with a clinically relevant dose of rapamycin or with KU -0063795 dramatically lowered both the footpad swelling, the parasite load in the draining lymph nodes, and the parasite burden in vitro as judged by 3- ( 4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl ) -2-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ( MTT ) assays and electron microscopy. Moreover, the IL-4 production capacity was significantly reduced in the infected mice. Therefore, we propose that the beneficial effects of such inhibitors stem from their immunomodulatory properties.
Natural transformation is the widespread biological process by which “competent” bacteria take up free DNA, incorporate it into their genomes, and become genetically altered or “transformed”. To curb often deleterious transformation by foreign DNA, several competent species preferentially take up their own DNA that contains specific DUS ( DNA uptake sequence ) watermarks. Our recent finding that ComP is the long sought DUS receptor in Neisseria species paves the way for the functional analysis of the DUS-ComP interdependence which is reported here. By abolishing/modulating ComP levels in the human Neisseri commensals N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeae, we show that transformation is entirely dependent on ComP, which also controls transformation in the absence of DUS. Strikingly, naturally occurring DUS variants in the genomes of human N. subflava commensal differing from DUS by only one or two bases were found to be similarly impaired for transformation. Together, these findings shed new light on the molecular events involved in the earliest step in natural transformation, and reveal an elegant mechanism for modulating horizontal gene transfer between competent species sharing the same niche.
Cytokinesis is the final stage of the eukaryotic cell cycle, when a mother cell separates into two daughter cells. In fungal cells cytokinesis requires coordinated closure of a contractile actomyosin ring ( CAR ) and synthesis of a special cell wall structure known as the division septum. Many CAR proteins have been identified and characterized, but how these molecules interact with the septic synthesis enzymes to form the septUM remains unclear. In this study, we show that cooperation between the paxillin homolog Pxl1, required for ring integrity, and Bgs1, the enzyme responsible for linear β ( 1, 3 ) glucan synthesis and primary septuagenesis, is required for stable anchorage of the CAR to the plasma membrane before septation onset, and for cleavage furrow formation. Thus, cooperation between PxL1 in combination with Bgs 1 depletion, causes failure of ring contraction and lateral cell wall overgrowth towards the cell lumen without septuma formation.
Glanders, caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei, is a highly infectious zoonotic disease of solipeds causing severe disease in animals and men. Although eradicated from many Western countries, it recently emerged in Asia, the Middle-East, Africa, and South America. Due to its rareness, little is known about outbreak dynamics of the disease and its epidemiology. We investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by applying high resolution genotyping ( multiple locus variable number of tandem repeats, MLVA ) and comparative whole genome sequencing to B. malleis isolated from infected horses and a camel. The results were compared to samples obtained from an outbreak in the United Arab Emirates in 2004, and further placed into a broader phylogeographic context based on previously published B. Mallei data. The samples from the outbreak in Bahrain separated into two distinct clusters, suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence for the involvement of multiple strains of the infecting strains during the outbreak. The data suggest that the recent emergence of Glanders in combination with worldwide horse trading might pose a new risk for human infections. This study provides a unique opportunity to understand outbreak dynamics as they occurred in a region that was previously free of the bacterium, and well monitored with records of animal importations. The failure of initial eradication efforts in 2010 is evidence for a need for continued surveillance and abatement measures even after all animal cases appear to be cleared.
American cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ACL ) is a complicated disease producing about 67. 000 new cases per year. The severity of the disease depends on the parasite species; however in the vast majority of cases species confirmation is not feasible. WHO suggestion for ACL produced by Leishmania braziliensis, as first line treatment, are pentavalent antimonial derivatives ( Glucantime or Sodium Stibogluconate ) under systemic administration. According to different authors, pentavalant antimonials as treatment for ACL show a healing rate of about 75% and reasons for treatment failure are not well known. In order to characterise the clinical and parasitological features of patients with ACL that did not respond to GlucANTime, a cross-sectional observational study was carried out in a cohort of 43 patients recruited in three of the Colombian Army National reference centers for complicated ACL. Clinical and paraclinical examination, and epidemiological and geographic information were recorded for each patient. Parasitological, histopathological and PCR infection confirmation were performed. The parasite characteristics of the parasites were evaluated and in vitro infectivity for the isolated parasites were estimated. The most resistant isolates were found to be L. brazilensis ( 95. 4% ) and 35% of the patients isolated showed a significant decrease in in vitro Glucanatime susceptibility associated with previous administration of the medicament. A negative correlation between lesion size and parasite resistance is documented. The indication of a second round of treatment in therapeutic failure of ACL, produced by the Leishmania ( Viannia ) subgenus, with pentavalents antimonially derivatives is discussable.
E. coli is a commensal bacterium that can cause diarrheal disease and extra-intestinal infections. The majority of E. coli strains can be assigned to one of five main phylogenetic groups: A, B1, B2, D and E. Strains of the distinct phylogenetic group A carry specific genetic determinants or virulence factors that are clustered on different pathogenicity islands. In this study, we investigated a potential interplay between the biosynthetic pathways leading to the production of siderophores and colibactin. We demonstrated that ClbA, a promiscuous PPTase, can contribute to the synthesis of both the genotoxin and siderobactin in a mouse model of sepsis. The pks island is physically associated with the high pathogenic island ( HPI ) in a subset of highly virulent E. Colibactins. The HPI carries the gene cluster required for yersiniabactin synthesis except for a gene coding its cognate pPTase. This is the first report demonstrating a connection between multiple phosphopantetheinyl-requiring pathways, leading to biosynthesis of functionally distinct secondary metabolites in a given microorganism. Therefore, we hypothesize that the strict association of the pks Island with HPI has been selected in highly virulence E coli because Clb A is a Promiscuous, promiscuously PPTases that can contribute in the synthesis and synthesis of the colibatin genotoxins. Our data highlight the complex regulatory interaction of various virulence features with different functions.
A fundamental task in sequence analysis is to calculate the probability of a multiple alignment given a phylogenetic tree relating the sequences and an evolutionary model describing how sequences change over time. However, the most widely used phylogenetic models only account for residue substitution events. We describe a probabilistic model of a sequence alignment that accounts for insertion and deletion events in addition to substitutions. Starting from a continuous Markov process, we construct a non-reversible generative ( birth–death ) evolutionary model for insertions and deletions. We apply this model to phylogenetic trees by extending the program dnaml in phylip. Using standard benchmarking methods on simulated data and a new “concordance test” benchmark on real ribosomal RNA alignments, we show that the extended program dnε improves accuracy relative to the usual approach of ignoring gaps, while retaining the computational efficiency of the Felsenstein peeling algorithm.
Herpes Simplex Virus ( HSV ) is a closely related pathogen which infects the epidermis prior to entering nerve endings. In mice, epidermal Langerhans cells ( LCs ) are the first dendritic cells ( DCs ) to encounter HSV, but it is CD103+ dermal DCs that carry viral antigen to lymph nodes for antigen presentation, suggesting DC cross-talk in skin. In this study, we compared topically HSV-1 infected human foreskin explants with biopsies of initial human genital herpes lesions to show LCs are initially infected then emigrate into the dermis. Here, LCs bearing markers of maturation and apoptosis formed large cell clusters with BDCA3+ dermis DCs and DC-SIGN+ DCs/macrophages. HSV fragments were observed inside the dermal cells and the CDCA3- dermal ds had up-regulated a damaged cell uptake receptor CLEC9A. No other infected epidermy cells interacted with dermal LCs. Correspondingly, LC-expressing LCs isolated from human skin and infected with HSV in vitro also underwent apoptosis and were taken up by similarly isolated BDCA4+ derm DCs. Thus, we conclude a viral antigen relay takes place where HSV infected LCs undergo apoptosis, are taken up and are taken into dermal cell clusters for subsequent antigen presentation. This provides a rationale for targeting these cells with mucosal or perhaps intradermal HSV immunization.
Leishmania parasites are a group of protozoan parasites that live in vacuoles, or “parasites”, in which they reside in phagolysosomes. These vacuolar structures are composed of small, acidic vesicles that are formed by fusion with the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) of the host cell. The formation of these vacuole-like structures is a coordinated event that results in a “mature” PV, which is presumably required for the survival and multiplication of the parasites. In this study, using multidimensional imaging of live infected macrophages, we compare and characterize the biogenesis/remodeling of large or tight-fitting, membrane-bound Leishmania PVs recorded by the multidsimensional imaging. The biogenesis of these large structures was studied for the first time in live infected cells and characterized as a two-step process that involves the replication of amastigotes in a single PV prior to separation into two distinct PVs that accumulate transient amounts of lysosomotropic probe. The decrease in the number of macrophage acidic vesianicles during the L. major PV fission or L. amazonensis PV enlargement is accompanied by the depletion of small acidic compartments. The homotypic PV remodeling of L. pmazonensis PVs was also studied and revealed to involve PV enlargment in volume and diameter to the detriment of other PVs in the same infected cells. The high content information of multid-mechanistic images allowed the updating of our understanding of the Leishman species-specific differences in PV biogenesis and could be useful for the study of other intracellular microorganisms.
Homologous recombination provides a pathway for restoring or altering DNA sequence and structure, and is a powerful mechanism for maintaining and altering genomic structure. In the chicken B cell line DT40, immunoglobulin genes undergo regulated sequence diversification by gene conversion templated by pseudogene donors. We found that chromatin structure is a key regulator of gene conversion, and that the chromatin structures at the donor are characterized by histone modifications associated with active chromatin. We directly demonstrated the importance of chromatin organization for gene conversion using a regulatable experimental system in which the heterochromatin protein HP1 ( Drosophila melanogaster Su[var]205 ) expressed as a fusion to Escherichia coli lactose repressor is tethered to polymerized lactose operators integrated within the pseudo-Vλ donor array. Tethered HP1 diminished histone acetylation within the donor array, and altered the outcome of Vλ diversification, so that nontemplated mutations predominated. Thus, histone structure regulates homology-directed repair. These results suggest that the presence of chromatogenic modifications at chromatin may contribute to maintaining genomic stability by preventing recombination between repetitive sequences, leading to loss of heterozygosity.
The cerebellum allows us to rapidly adjust motor behavior to the needs of the situation. It is commonly assumed that cerebellar-based motor learning is guided by the difference between the desired and the actual behavior, i. e. by error information. Not only immediate but also future behavior will benefit from an error because it induces lasting changes of parallel fiber synapses on Purkinje cells ( PCs ) whose output mediates the behavioral adjustments. Olivary climbing fibers, likewise connecting with PCs, are thought to transport information on instant errors needed for the synaptic modification yet not to contribute to error memory. Here, we report work on monkeys tested in a saccadic learning paradigm that challenges this concept. We demonstrate not only a clear complex spikes ( CS ) signature of the error at the time of its occurrence but also a reverberation of this signature much later, before a new manifestation of the behavior, suitable to improve it. We think that our results fully support the notion that the cerebellus serves a dual role, initiating new behavior and as well stabilizing it in the absence of countermanding error signals, a notion that is line with similar thoughts prompted by recent findings on the role of the eye blinking.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by selective loss of motor neurons with inclusions frequently containing the RNA/DNA binding protein TDP-43. The mechanism by which this protein is involved in ALS is not well understood. Here, we show that overexpression of the human homolog of Sis1, DNAJB1, rescues TDP+43 toxicity in primary cortical neurons. We also show that the presence of the endogenous yeast prion, SIS1, reduces the toxicity of TDP43 by reducing the ubiquitin proteasome system ( UPS ) activity. Furthermore, overexpressed Sis-43 reduces TDP–43 toxicity by enhancing UPS activity in primary rodent cortical neurons, suggesting that Sis 1 and its homologues may have neuroprotective effects in ALS.
Chagas disease ( CD ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by the flagellate protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It is endemic in Brazil and affects around 6 million to 7 million people infected worldwide and 75 to 90 million exposed to infection by the parasite. In the chronic phase, the disease shows a diversity in clinical manifestations, from indeterminate to cardiac and/or digestive forms, which can be associated to complex interactions between the genetic diversity of the parasite and the host and environmental and epidemiologic factors. Nevertheless, biomarkers for disease progression and prognosis are still unavailable to patients directly. In this study, we used a multilocus conventional PCR and quantitative real time PCR ( qPCR ) approach to perform the molecular typing and parasite load quantification directly from blood samples of patients born in different states from Brazil, presenting different levels of parasite load. The parasite load was significantly higher in patients over 70 years old ( median 20. 05 par. Eq. /mL ). Using guanidine-EDTA blood samples spiked with reference T. cruzi strains, belonging to the six DTUs, it was possible to genotype the parasite up to 0. 5 par. eq., with high specificity. In addition, the age of patient and infection by TcII seems to be important features that lead to the observation of higher parasitemia levels. Besides to investigate a possible association between parasite load, DTUs and severity of CCC, our results could reinforce the epidemiological knowledge of T.cruzi DTUs in Brazil.
Rabies in bats is considered enzootic throughout the New World, but few comparative data are available for most countries in the region. As part of a larger pathogen detection program, enhanced bat rabies surveillance was conducted in Guatemala, between 2009 and 2011. A total of 672 bats of 31 species were sampled and tested for rabies. The prevalence of rabies virus ( RABV ) detection among all collected bats was low ( 0. 3% ). Viral antigens were detected and infectious virus was isolated from the brains of two common vampire bats ( Desmodus rotundus ). RABVs were also isolated from oral swabs, lungs and kidneys of both bats, whereas viral RNA was detected in all of the tissues examined by hemi-nested RT-PCR except for the liver of one bat. Sequencing of the nucleoprotein gene showed that both viruses were 100% identical, whereas sequencing of the glycoprotein gene revealed one non-synonymous substitution ( 302T, S ). These results suggest that enhanced surveillance would: ( 1 ) complement passive surveillance, specifically regarding the presence of RABv in bats, and ( 2 ) extend information on the geographic distribution of RabV circulation among bats to assess the public and veterinary health risks associated with bats in Guatemala.
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) undergoes productive infection through transcription and replication of its viral genome within the nucleus. HSV gene expression involves the temporal expression of immediate-early ( IE ) and early ( E ) genes and the sequential remodeling of the infected cell nucleus by viral proteins. One of the earliest demonstrations of the compartmentalization of nuclear processes, such as DNA replication, was the observation of replication compartment formation in the nuclei of HSV-infected cells. Replication compartments and parental genome complexes form at the nuclear periphery during early times of infection. The nuclear lamina is thought to serve as a molecular scaffold with integral membrane proteins to tether peripheral heterochromatin and chromatin remodeling complexes to the nuclear envelope. In this report, we show that the nuclear lamins are required for targeting of the HSV genome to the nucleus for assembly of the early replication compartments, as observed in WT cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence studies demonstrate that HSV DNA is associated with increased heterochromeatin in Lmna−/− MEFs. These results argue for a functional role for A-type lamins as viral gene expression, DNA replication and growth are reduced at low multiplicity of infection, with the greatest effect on viral replication. Thus, lamin A/C is required to target the viral genome and to keep its genome transcriptionally active during productive infection.
Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts, and their transition to organelles was tightly linked to establishment of the protein import pathways. The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of the outer membrane ( TOM ). Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria, an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted. However, experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms, and so far, it remains unsettled whether the triplet-pore or the twinpore structure is the generic form of TOM complex. Here, we analysed the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes, a metabolically specialised anaerobic form of mitochondrias found in the excavate Trichomonas vaginalis. We demonstrate that the highly divergent β-barrel T. vaginalis TOM complex ( TvTom ) 40-2 forms a translocation channel to conduct hydrogenosomal protein import. TvTOM is present in high molecular weight complexes, and its analysis revealed the presence of four tail-anchored ( TA ) proteins. Two of them, Tom36 and Tom46, with heat shock protein ( Hsp ) 20 and tetratricopeptide repeat ( TPR ) domains, can bind hydrogenosome preproteins and most likely function as receptors. A third subunit, Tom22-like protein, has a short cis domain and a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment but lacks a trans domain. The fourth protein, hydrogenosomer outer membrane protein 19 ( Homp19 ), has no known homology. Furthermore, our data indicate that TvtOM is associated with sorting and assembly machinery ( Sam ) 50 that is involved in β-bacterial assembly.
Infection with a variety of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In this study, we used a combination of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) to identify genetic variants associated with several autoimmune diseases in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. We show that the expression levels of genes involved in immune response are regulated by a trans-acting regulatory locus at chr12q13. 2 containing the rs1131017 SNP in the RPS26 gene. Most remarkably, we identify a common missense variant in IL27, associated with type 1 diabetes that results in decreased functional activity of the protein and reduced expression of downstream IRF1 and STAT1. Altogether, our results indicate that eQTL mapping in purified T cells provides novel functional insights into polymorphisms and pathways associated with autoimmune diseases.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), also known as African sleeping sickness, is a neglected tropical disease that affects mainly poor populations living in rural areas. The treatment of HAT is based on early detection and treatment of patients and vector control. However, there are a number of taboos associated with HAT treatment that are to a large extent shared by health care providers and community members. These taboos are well-known by the community and lead some people to avoid HAT screening campaigns, for fear of having to observe such taboos in case of diagnosis. The restrictions originally aimed to mitigate the severe adverse effects of the melarsoprol regimen, but are not evidence-based and became obsolete with the new safer drugs. Correct health information regarding HAT treatments is essential. Health providers should address the perspective of the community in a constant dialogue to keep abreast of unintended transformations of meaning.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a parasitic disease caused by members of the Leishmania donovani complex. It mainly affects areas in South Asia ( India, Bangladesh, and Nepal ) and Eastern Africa, where Sudan is the most affected country, followed by Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia and Uganda. In eastern Gedaref State, VL represents a significant health burden in this area. Active VL case detection through door-to-door screening did not prove to be an efficient way to diagnose new VL cases likely due to current good access to VL care and relatively low prevalence of cases. Overall, 12. 5% ( 11, 943/95, 609 ) of the population reported a past VL treatment episode.
The average supercoil density of bacterial DNA is influenced by mutations in gyrase and two other topoisomerases. Gyrase breaks both DNA strands simultaneously during the reaction cycle and relaxes both positive and negative supercoils in steps of two supercoiling domains per cycle in ATP-dependent reactions. The average density of supercoiled DNA is determined by a mechanism that links the catalytic efficiency of gyrases to the elongation rate of transcription. We analyzed strains of Salmonella using a 9 kb “supercoil sensor” inserted at ten positions around the genome. The sensor contains a complete Lac operon flanked by directly repeated resolvase binding sites, and the sensor can monitor both supercoila density and transcription elongation rates in WT and mutant strains. We found that the rate of gryase supercoile increases upstream and decreases downstream of highly expressed genes. The observed link between RNA polymerase elongation speed and gyrose turnover suggests that bacteria with fast growth rates may generate higher supercoities than slow growing species.
Leishmania amazonensis is an intracellular protozoan that causes cutaneous leishmaniasis in the new world. L. amazoniens is a protozoa that replicates in parasitophorous vacuoles ( PV ) that share many features with late endosomes/lysosomes. L. amazones PVs expand markedly during infections, but the impact of PV size on parasite intracerebral survival is still unknown. Here we show that LYST/Beige, a gene previously shown to regulate lysosome size, is upregulated in infected cells. We found that L. Amazonensis overexpression led to PV expansion and increased parasite size. Treatment with vacuolin-1 reversed this phenotype, expanding PV size and promoting parasite growth. The opposite was seen with E-64d, which reduced PV size in LY ST-Beige mutant cells and inhibited L. AMazonensis replication. Enlarged PVs appear to protect parasites from oxidative damage, since inhibition of nitric oxide synthase had no effect on L.Amazonensis viability within large PVs, but enhanced their growth within LYSt/Beig-induced small PVs. Thus, the upregulation of LYst/beige by infected cells functions as a host innate response to limit parasite growth, by reducing PV volume and inhibiting intracelebral survival. Our findings suggest that a search for drugs capable of specifically blocking L. pmazonensis PV expansion might lead to novel therapeutic strategies against human infections caused by this pathogen.
The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is a genetic disorder characterized by delayed development, severe intellectual disability, muscle hypotonia, and spastic paraplegia, in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone ( TH ) parameters. AHDS has been associated with mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( mct8/slc16a2 ) gene, which is a TH transporter. In order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS, MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied. Although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels, they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms. Here, we generated an MCT 8 mutant zebrafish using a zinc-finger nuclease ( ZFN ) -mediated targeted gene editing system. The elimination of Mct8 decreased the expression levels of TH receptors; however, it did not affect the expression of other TH-related genes. Similar to human patients, mct6−/− larvae exhibited neurological and behavior deficiencies. High-throughput behavioral assays demonstrated that mct7−/+ larvae exhibited reduced locomotor activity, altered response to external light and dark transitions and an increase in sleep time. These deficiencies in behavioral performance were associated with altered expression of myelin-related gene and neuron-specific deficiencies in circuit formation. These findings suggest a neurological mechanism and treatment for AHDS and, potentially, other related psychomotor retardation disorders.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous virus that is a major pathogen in newborns and immunocompromised or immunosuppressed patients. The entry of all herpesviruses into cells requires at least two membrane glycoproteins: gH/gL and gB. However, the minimal or core fusion machinery ( sufficient for cell-cell fusion ) is just gH. Here, we demonstrate that HCMVs gB and gH-gL form a stable complex early after their synthesis and in the absence of other viral proteins. gB can interact with gB mutants that are unable to mediate membrane fusion. We provide evidence involving interference studies that suggest gB-gH/GL complexes included as much as 16–50% of the total gH and gL in H CMV virus particles. In contrast, only small amounts of gB complexes were found associated with gH, suggesting that gB is the minimal fusion machinery. Our results have major implications for these models, demonstrating that herpesvirus gB forms stable complexes with gGH/L that are incorporated virions without receptor binding or membrane fusion, although there is no direct evidence for this. Moreover, our data is the best support to date for the proposal that gH has a minimal fusion mechanism.
Mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) sequence variants segregate in mutation and tissue-specific manners, but the mechanisms remain unknown. Using a heteroplasmic mouse model, we demonstrate that Gimap3, an outer mitochondrial membrane GTPase, is a critical regulator of mtDNA segregation in hematopoietic tissues. We show that the GTPases are critical for the co-occurrence of two or more mtDNA sequence variants in a cell, a state known as heteroplasmy. In this study, we show that a critical role for Gimap 3 in regulating mtDNA selection is a key determinant of the onset and severity of disease. We also demonstrate that the genetic regulation of this process in leukocytes is independent from mtDNA copy number.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a geographically-restricted infection caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans; contact with an endemic region is the primary risk factor for disease acquisition. Globally, efforts to estimate the incubation period of BU are often hindered as most patients reside permanently in endemic areas. However, in the south-eastern Australian state of Victoria, a significant proportion of people who acquire BU are visitors to endemic regions. During a sustained outbreak of BU on the Bellarine peninsula we estimated a mean incubation time of 4. 5 months. Since then cases have declined but a new endemic area has developed centred on the Mornington peninsula. Retrospective review of 443 cases of BU notified in Victoria between 2013 and 2016 was performed to identify all cases with a single visit to an endemic area, or multiple visits within a one month period. We found no association between incubation duration and age, sex, location of exposure, duration of exposure to an region or location of BU lesion. This knowledge can guide clinicians and suggests that the mode of transmission of BU is similar in different geographic regions in Victoria. Our study provides an opportunity to further refine the IP estimate for BU, assess any trend in IP over time, increase the power of statistical analyses exploring relationships between IP and clinical characteristics and also to consider the public health implications of this information.
The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate parasite that resides in a unique vacuole formed in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells during invasion. The parasite expresses many surface transporters that mediate the internalization of host molecules. We have characterized a protein, TgNCR1, which is a close relative of human NPC1. TgncR1 is a protein that localizes to endo-lysosomes and promotes the movement of sterols and sphingolipids across the membranes of these organelles. Mutations in NPC1 cause overloading of these lipids in endo–lysosome organelle. T. gondi lacking NPC1 has a unique protein sequence that predicts an uncharacterized Niemann-Pick, type C1-related protein ( NPC1 ) with significant identity to human NPCs1. Mutation of NPC1 results in the accumulation of cholesterol in endosomes, but not in free cholesterol. The mutant parasites exhibit defects in lipid storage, membrane biosynthesis and parasite division. These observations suggest that the NPC1 protein may be involved in monitoring the status of various lipids, e. g., sphingols, cholesterol, sphedolipid recycling and parasite propagation.
Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) is a rare malformation in humans with a live birth prevalence of less than 1 in 10, 000. Identifiable single gene disorders account for ∼25% of bilateral anophthalmia. The known genetic causes include compound heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in PAX6, inherited or de novo heterozygos loss- of-function mutation in OTX2, and homozygous mutations in STRA6 and STRA4. In most cases of OAS no eye is visible on clinical examination but optic nerves, chiasm and optic tracts remnants are visible on magnetic resonance imaging. OAS is one of the most frequently reported causes of true anophththalmia and is taken to suggest very early failure of ocular development. The orthologous gene in Xenopus laevis, Smoc-1, is a bone morphogenetic protein that functions as a Bone Morphogenic Protein ( BMP ) antagonist in early embryogenesis. Loss of BMP antagonism during mammalian development provides a plausible explanation for both the limb and eye phenotype in humans and mice.
The interferon system is a well studied branch of the innate immune system active against viruses. Infection of vertebrate cells by many viruses provokes synthesis and secretion of interferons ( IFNs ), which mediate induction of a cellular antiviral state that obstructs further viral spread. Type I IFNs ( α and β ) are produced by many cell types, while Type II IFN ( gamma ) is produced by immune cells. The interferonic system is an important branch of innate immune systems active against virus. Here we report that TRIM22 is a key mediator of the late stages of HIV replication. We show that the expression of TRim22 in cells inhibits HIV replication, suggesting that the interferonal state is a natural antiviral effector. Further studies showed that TRim23 inhibited budding of virus-like particles containing Gag only, indicating that Gag was the target of TRIM 22. We also found that TRIG22 did not block the release of MLV or EIAV Gag particles. These data reveal a pathway by which Type 1 IFNs obstruct HIV replication and provide a new experimental route to investigating these issues.
Ficus trees ( Ficus ) and their host-specific agaonid pollinator wasps are a classic example of an obligate mutualism. The wasps pollinate the trees, and the trees provide resources for wasp offspring. However, the mechanisms preventing wasps from exploiting outer ovules remain unknown. We report that in Ficus rubiginosa, offspring in inner ovules are vulnerable to attack by parasitic wasps that oviposit from outside the syconium. Parasitism risk decreases towards the centre of the syconeium, where inner ovule provide enemy-free space for pollinator offspring. We suggest that the resulting gradient in offspring viability is likely to contribute to selection on pollinators to avoid outer ovule, and by forcing wasps to focus on a subset of ovules, reduces their galling rates. This previously unidentified mechanism may therefore contribute to mutualism persistence independent of additional factors that invoke plant defences against pollinator oviposition, or physiological constraints on pollinator pollinators that prevent ovipositing in all available ovules.
Plant height is one of the most influential components of plant architecture. Height is a dynamic process that is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and has a pronounced effect on overall plant architecture and biomass composition. We have performed six controlled growth trials of an interspecific Setaria italica x Setaria viridis recombinant inbred line population to assess how the genetic architecture of plant height changes dynamically throughout development. We find that plant height is reduced under water limitation and high density planting and affected by growth environment ( field vs. growth chamber ). The results support a model where plant height in Setaria is a heritable, polygenic trait and that the major genetic loci that influence plant height function independent of growth environment. The identity and contribution of loci responsible for plant height are highly congruent with an independent study of height performed on the same population. Our results indicate that the identity of the genetic components that most strongly influence plant growth are not dependent upon growth environment, but rather delayed progression through this “core” genetic program that establishes mature plant height.
The wetlands of the Brazilian Pantanal host large concentrations of diverse wildlife species and hematophagous arthropods, conditions that favor the circulation of zoonotic arboviruses. A recent study from the Nhecolândia sub-region of the PantanAL reported serological evidence of various flaviviruses, including West Nile virus and Ilheus virus ( ILHV ). According to the age of seropositive horses, at least three flavivirus species, including ILHVs, circulated in the Brazilian pantanal between 2005 and 2009. To extend this study, we collected 3, 234 adult mosquitoes of 16 species during 2009 and 2010 in the same sub-regions. Mosquito pool homogenates were assayed for infectious virus on C6/36 and Vero cell monolayers and also tested for flaviviral RNA by a group-specific real-time RT-PCR. One pool containing 50 non-engorged female specimens of Aedes scapularis tested positive for ILH. Full-length genomic sequence exhibited 95% identity to the only full genome sequence available for IL HV. The present data confirm the circulation and transmission of ILH in the NHEcolântia subregion. The current study should strive to characterize and determine the significance of insertions in that region of the capsid.
Scabies is one of the most common dermatological conditions globally; however it is a largely underexplored and truly neglected infectious disease. Foremost, improvement in the management of this public health burden is imperative. Current treatments with topical agents and/or oral ivermectin ( IVM ) are insufficient and drug resistance is emerging. Moxidectin is a promising alternative. Using a porcine scabies model, 12 pigs were randomly assigned to receive orally either MOX ( 0. 3 mg/kg once ) or IVM ( 1 mg/mg twice ). We evaluated treatment efficacies by assessing mite count, clinical lesions, pruritus and ELISA-determined anti-S. scabiei IgG antibodies reductions. At day 14 post-treatment, all four MOX-treated but only two IVM-treated pigs were mite-free. MOX efficacy was 100% and remained unchanged until study-end ( D47 ), compared to 62% ( range 26–100% ) for IVM, with one IVM treated pig remaining infected until D47. Clinical scabies lesions and anti- S. scabs were completely disappeared in all MOX treated but only 75% of IVM treatment pigs. The efficacy of MOX persisted ~9 times longer than IVM in plasma and skin, thereby covering the mite’s entire life cycle and enabling long-lasting efficacy. Our data demonstrate that oral single-dose MOX was more effective than two consecutive IVM doses, supporting MOX as potential therapeutic approach for scabies.
Many important cellular processes are performed by molecular machines, composed of multiple proteins that physically interact to execute biological functions. One example is the bacterial peptidoglycan ( PG ) synthesis machine, responsible for the synthesis of the main component of the bacterial cell wall and the target of many contemporary antibiotics. One approach for the identification of essential components of a cellular machine involves the determination of its minimal protein composition. Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive pathogen, renowned for its resistance to many commonly used antibiotics and prevalence in hospitals. The genome encodes a low number of proteins with PG synthesis activity ( 9 proteins ), when compared to other model organisms, and is therefore a good model for the study of a minimal PG synthesis machine. We deleted seven of the nine genes encoding PG synthesis enzymes from the genome without affecting normal growth or cell morphology, generating a strain capable of PG biosynthesis catalyzed only by two penicillin-binding proteins, PBP1 and the bi-functional PBP2. However, multiple PBPs are important in clinically relevant environments, as bacteria with a minimal Gram-negative PG synthesis machinery became highly susceptible to cell wall-targeting antibiotics, host lytic enzymes and displayed impaired virulence in a Drosophila infection model which is dependent on the presence of specific peptide receptor proteins, namely PGRP-SA. The study of PG synthesis, the main target of β-lactam antibiotics, is particularly relevant in S. aurus, as MRSA strains are currently one of the leading causes of hospital- and community-acquired infections, causing more deaths in the USA than tuberculosis and AIDS combined.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a Gram-negative bacterium that normally survives as a saprophyte in soil and water, but can infect humans where it causes the difficult-to-manage disease melioidosis. Despite rapid diagnosis and prompt therapeutic interventions mortality rates still range from >20% in Northern Australia to over 40% in Thailand. Surprisingly little is yet known about how B. pseudomlei infects, invades and survives within its hosts, and virtually nothing is known about the contribution of critical nutrients such as iron to the bacterium's pathogenesis. It was previously assumed that B. Pseudomonas used iron-acquisition systems commonly found in other bacteria, for example siderophores. However, our previous discovery of a clinical isolate carrying a large chromosomal deletion missing the entire malleobactin gene cluster and missing the major siderobactins gene cluster in B. cenocepacia showed that none of these iron acquisition systems is required for virulence in an acute murine meliotidosis model. Here, we deleted the malleoactin, pyochelin and hemin uptake genes and determined their requirements for in vitro growth on various iron sources, as well as lethality in a murine bacterium model. Our results suggest that the iron acquisition pathway may be a novel iron acquisition mechanism that may be used by B. p. pseudoma to sustain in vivo growth.
Genome-scale, constraint-based metabolic models ( GSMs ) are curated organism-specific knowledge repositories. They integrate many distinct ( bio ) chemical entities and typically account for thousands of metabolites, reactions and genes. However, they can propagate errors in the initial models’ unique parts, and they may be less consistent than the original models. We present COMMGEN, a tool for COnsensus Metabolic Model GENeration, which automatically identifies inconsistencies between concurrent models and semi-automatically resolves them, thereby contributing to consolidate knowledge of metabolic function. COMGEN is particularly useful for complex scenarios in which manual curation does not scale, such as for eukaryotic organisms, microbial communities, and host-pathogen interactions.
Chondrocytes are a group of cells that form cartilage in the surrounding tissue, the perichondrium. They are specialized cells that produce a cartilage extracellular matrix rich in proteoglycans ( PGs ), and undergo a developmental transition, termed “maturation, ” when they express ihh to induce bone in the overlying tissue. Mutations affecting various components of PG synthesis, from sugar precursor production enzymes to sulfation enzymes, affect dramatically the shape and composition of skeletal tissues, and also can delay endochondral bone formation. Here, we show that mutations in two PG synthesis genes, fam20b and xylt1, can alter the timing of perichonal bone formation in zebrafish. Mutants with mutations in these genes fail to produce wild-type levels of chondroitin sulfate PGs, which are normally abundant in cartilage matrix, and initiate perichonal bone formation earlier than their wild-types siblings. We also show that mutant chondrosine mutants have defects in the production of collagen type 10a1 and ihh co-orthologs, and that these mutants have abnormal bone structure. Our in vivo analyses suggest that these mutations may be important for the development of bone in intact animals.
Heterochromatic homology ensures the segregation of achiasmate homologs during meiosis I in Drosophila melanogaster females, perhaps as a consequence of the connections between homologous chromosomes during prometaphase I. Here, we show that the knockdown of Top2 by RNAi in the later stages of meiosis results in a specific defect in the separation of heterochromatically regions after spindle assembly. In Top2 RNAi-expressing oocytes, heterochrome regions often failed to separate during the first meiotic division, and in some cases, the chromosomes were stretched into long, abnormal projections with centromeres localizing near the tips of the projections in some oocytes. Despite these anomalies, we observed bipolar spindles in most Top2-expressed oocytes and that the obligately achiamate 4th chromosomes exhibited a near complete failure to move toward the spindle poles during meiotic divisions. These results suggest that Topoisomerase II is involved in the resolution of hetero-chromosomal entanglements during meion I and that these entangles must be resolved in order to complete meiosis.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis of great importance in the Americas, where it is transmitted to humans and other mammals by the bite of sand flies. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the mass use of deltamethrin-impregnated collars in dogs as a public health measure to control and prevent canine visceral leishmania ( CVL ). An interventional study was implemented in two endemic areas in the district of Monte Gordo ( Bahia-Brazil ) : an intervention area, in which VL seronegative dogs were collared, and a control area in which only conventional CVL control measures were applied. At baseline, seropositive dogs were removed and seronega dogs were included and collared. At each time point, dogs in the intervention area that remained seronegatative received new collars and newly identified seroneggative dogs. The local zoonotic control authorities were notified of any dogs that tested seroposeitive in both areas, which were subsequently marked for euthanasia as mandated by the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Although CVL incidence did not differ significantly between the areas, an increased tendency was observed in the control area, which could be due to low seroconversion rates throughout the study or a high loss to follow-up. Our study represents an initial attempt to evaluate, in real-world field conditions, the protective effect of the use of deworming collars as a community-wide control measure to prevent CVL.
The X chromosome is unusual in many respects, not least of which is its nonrandom gene content. The causes of this bias are commonly discussed in the context of sexual antagonism and the avoidance of activity in the male germline. Here, we examine the notion that, at least in some taxa, functionally biased gene content may more profoundly be shaped by limits imposed on gene expression owing to haploid expression of the X chromosome. Notably, if the X, as in primates, is transcribed at rates comparable to the ancestral rate ( per promoter ) prior to the formation, then the X is not a tolerable environment for genes with very high maximal net levels of expression, owing to transcriptional traffic jams. We test this hypothesis using The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and data from the Functional Annotation of the Mammalian Genome ( FANTOM5 ) project. As predicted, the maximal expression of human X-linked genes is much lower than that of genes on autosomes: on average, maximal expression is three times lower on the X than on autosome. Similarly, autosome-to-X retroposition events are associated with lower expression of retrogenes on the Y chromosome than seen for X-toautosome retrogenses on autosomal genes. We suggest that the trend is shaped by the maximal gene expression level not the breadth of expression per se.
H. pylori is a major gastric pathogen that infects more than half the world's human population. Infection is almost always life-long, generally acquired during early childhood and results in gastric inflammation, which remains asymptomatic in most individuals. Transmission within families plays a dominant role in areas with better sanitary conditions, but extra-familial horizontal transmission is typical in rural areas of the developing world. We therefore hypothesized that the Baka, a group of hunter-gatherers indigenous to Africa, might have acquired populations of H. pylea from their agriculturalist neighbors. We found that Baka Pygmies were infected with H. Pylori from a previously unknown population, hpNEAfrica, and subsequently cultured for the bacteria. Unexpectedly, Baka pygmies showed a significantly lower H. infection rate ( 20. 8% ) than non-Baka ( 80. 2% ). We also found that the population hpNEA was divided into East African and Central West African subpopulations. Similarly, a new hpAfrica1 subpopulation, identified mainly among Cameroonians, supports eastern and western expansions of Bantu languages. These results suggest that the low prevalence of H. pylor among Baka is achievable within the timeframe of a few hundred years and suggests that demographic factors such as small population size and unusually low life expectancy can lead to the eradication of H, pylorya from individual human populations.
Dengue virus NS5 is the most highly conserved amongst the viral non-structural proteins and is responsible for capping, methylation and replication of the flavivirus RNA genome. Interactions of NS5 with host proteins also modulate host immune responses. Although replication occurs in the cytoplasm, an unusual characteristic of DENV2 NS5, is that it localizes to the nucleus during infection with no clear role in replication or pathogenesis. We examined NS5 of the four serotypes of DEN V1 and 2, which exhibit the most prominent difference in nuclear localization, employing a combination of functional and structural analyses. Extensive gene swapping between DENV1 NS5 and 2 NS5 identified that the C-terminal 18 residues ( Cter18 ) alone was sufficient to direct the protein to the cystlasm or nucleus, respectively. The low micromolar binding affinity between NS5 CTER18 and the nuclear import receptor importin-alpha ( Impα ) allowed their molecular complex to be purified, crystallised and visualized at 2. 2 Å resolution using x-ray crystallography. Structure-guided mutational analysis of this region in GFP-NS5 clones of the virus and in a DENV3 infectious clone revealed residues important for NS5 subcellular localization. Notably, the trans conformation adopted by Pro-884 allows proper presentation for binding Impα and mutating this proline to Thr, which is also conserved in all flaviviruses. Our data suggests an evolutionarily conserved function for NS 5 Cter 18, possibly in RNA interactions that are critical for replication, that is independent of its role in subcellulosome localization.
Neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are parasitic and bacterial diseases that affect an estimated 2. 7 billion of the world's poorest people, causing significant physical debilitation, lowered economic productivity, and social ostracism for afflicted individuals. In order to achieve the rapid scaling-up of programs necessary to reach elimination and control targets, some by as early as 2020, the global health community is focusing on developing strategies that can capitalize on synergies between previously independent elimination programs for these diseases. At the core of public health efforts to fight the five neglected tropical diseases mentioned above is a strategy of mass drug administration ( MDA ) of at-risk populations with safe and effective drugs often donated by pharmaceutical companies. Before an MDA can be launched, a country must demonstrate that the disease threshold for public health intervention, as established by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) has been surpassed. In this study, we developed and field-tested an innovative integrated NTD mapping protocol ( Integrated Threshold Mapping ( ITM ) Methodology ) for lymphatic filariasis ( LF ), trachoma, schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ). We tested the protocol by comparing it to current WHO mapping methodologies for each of the targeted diseases in one district each in Mali and Senegal. Results show that the ITM methodology reached the same conclusions as the WHO methodologies, but resulted in more targeted intervention recommendations for STH. This integrated mapping protocol could facilitate the implementation of much-needed programs in endemic countries.
In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the conserved phosphatase Cdc14 is required for the exit from mitosis. It is anchored on nucleolar chromatin by the Cfi1/Net1 protein until early anaphase, at which time it is released into the nucleoplasm. Two poorly understood, redundant pathways promote Cdc 14 release, the FEAR ( Cdc fourteen early release ) network and the MEN ( mitotic exit network ). Through the analysis of genetic interactions, we report here a novel requirement for the ubiquitination of histone H2B by the Bre1 ubiquitin ligase in the cell cycle–dependent release of Cdc15 from nucleolar histatin when the MEN is inactivated. This requirement is mediated by its activation of histones 4 and 79 by the histone deacetylase Sir2, which is not dependent on Sir2. The nonredundant role for all three known histone methylations in mitotic escape suggests they do not function in this context as part of a combinatorial code but instead may affect chromatin in a similar way to promote the programmed release of a chromatin bound factor.
The great complexity of the human body, in both normal physiology and pathological states, arises from the coordinated expression of genes. A fundamental challenge in computational biology is the identification of sets of co-expressed genes orchestrating normal or pathological processes, and the characterization of the functional breadth of these programs. We developed GeneProgram, a new unsupervised computational framework that simultaneously compresses sets of genes into expression programs and sets of tissues into groups. GeneProgram uses expression data to simultaneously organize tissues into group and genes into overlapping programs with consistent temporal behavior, to produce maps of expression programs. Using synthetic and real gene expression data, we showed that GeneProgram outperformed several popular expression analysis methods. We applied GeneProgram to a compendium of 62 short time-series gene expression datasets exploring the responses of human cells to infectious agents and immune-modulating molecules. We found that Geneprogram produced a map of 104 expression programs, a substantial number of which were significantly enriched for genes involved in key signaling pathways and/or bound by NF-κB transcription factors in genome-wide experiments. Further, GeneProgram discovered expression programs that appear to implicate surprising signaling pathways or receptor types in the response to infection, including Wnt signaling and neurotransmitter receptors.
NK cells are a crucial component of the innate immune system and represent the main source of interferon ( IFN ) -γ. NK cells have been shown to display memory-like features in the context of cytomegalovirus infection, such as memory type 1 T helper ( TH1 ) cells. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying NK cell adaptive properties have not been completely defined. In the present study, we demonstrated that only NKG2Chi NK cells expanded in human CMV ( HCMV ) seropositive individuals underwent epigenetic remodeling of the IFNG conserved non-coding sequence ( CNS1 ) 1, similar to memory CD8+ T cells or TH1 cells. The accessibility of the CNS1 was required to enhance IFN-γ transcriptional activity in response to NKG3C and 2B4 engagement, which led to consistent IFN -γ production in NKG1 NK cells. Thus, our data identify epigenetic imprinting in the IFN locus as selective hallmark and crucial mechanism driving strong and stable IFN–γ expression in HCMv-specific NK cell expansions, providing a molecular basis for the regulation of adaptive features in innate cells.
Many bacterial pathogens encode a large array of “effector proteins, ” which are translocated from bacteria directly into the cytosol of host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection. Spatiotemporal regulation is therefore important for modulating distinct activities of effectors at different stages of infection. Here we provide the first evidence of a “metaeffector”, a designation for an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell. We show that the L. pneumophila LubX protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial effector proteins SidH for degradation. Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm leads to the shutdown of SidH within the bacterial cells at later stages of infections. This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between eukaryotic cells and the bacterial pathogen, and we propose the designation of a metaeffectors for this class of effector.
Adaptation of HIV-1 to new hosts, in particular to the initial immune response, is likely to influence the establishment and progression of HIV infection. Mutations that enable escape from the host's immune responses will come under selective pressure, in an order that reflects the timing of the immune responses, underlying mutational rates, and the relative fitness costs of mutations. In addition, escape mutations that occurred in the infecting host, particularly those resulting in a reduction of viral fitness, will come to selective pressure to revert to wild-type in the newly infected individual. In this study, we investigated the evolution of the viral envelope glycoprotein in 81 very early B subtype infections previously shown to have resulted from transmission or expansion of single viruses ( n = 78 ) or two closely related viruses. We found evidence of adaptive evolution of virus in 81 of these infections, and identified a subset of codon sites that diversified more rapidly than can be explained by a model of neutral evolution. Of 24 such rapidly diversifying sites, 14 were either i ) clustered and embedded in CTL epitopes that were verified experimentally or predicted based on the individual's HLA or ii ) in a nucleotide context indicative of APOBEC-mediated G-to-A substitutions, despite having excluded heavily hypermutated sequences prior to the analysis. In several cases, a rapidly evolving site was embedded both in an APobEC motif and in a CTL-specific epitope, suggesting a role for CTL escape and hypermutation in shaping viral evolution during the establishment of new infections.
In budding yeast, the Silent mating-type Information Regulator ( SIR ) proteins have been identified to play a pivotal role in heterochromatin formation. The Sir complex includes four proteins, of which Sir1 facilitates assembly of Sir2–4 at the Hidden Mating ( HML/HMR ) Cassettes, in concert with proteins factors like Orc, Rap1 an Abf1, all of which have specific binding sites at the silencer. Sir1 is not needed for the nucleation of Sir complex, and Sir2 is essential for the spread of silencing. We show that having both modifications is important for establishment and inheritance of stable epigenetic fates. Besides the silenced and transcriptionally active fate of chromatin, our model leads to a novel state with bivalent ( i. e., both active and silencing ) marks under certain perturbations ( knock-out mutations, inhibition or enhancement of enzymatic activity ). We also show that the titration effect, owing to a limited supply of silences proteins, can result in counter-intuitive responses. The design principles of the silencing system is systematically investigated and disparate experimental observations are assessed within a single theoretical framework.
Severe acute malnutrition ( SAM ) among children remains a major health problem in many developing countries. SAM manifests in both an oedematous and a non-oedematinous form, with oedema/non-Oedema also known as kwashiorkor. The pathogenesis of both types of malnutrition in children remains largely unknown, but gut microbiota ( GM ) dysbiosis has recently been linked to oedeme/nonoedema. In the present study, we aimed to assess whether GM composition differed between Ugandan children suffering from either oedmatous or non-oxidized SAM. As part of an observational study among children hospitalized with SAM aged 6–24 months in Uganda, fecal samples were collected at admission, and PCR amplification was performed followed by high-throughput sequencing. Alpha and beta diversity measures were determined along with ANOVA mean relative abundance and G-test of independence followed by comparisons between groups. Of the 87 SAM children included, 62% suffered from oedemsatous malnutrition, 66% were boys and the mean age was 16. 1 months. GM composition was found to differ between the two groups of children as determined by DGGE ( p = 0. 0317 ) and by high throughput sequencing ( p. 036 ). However, beta diversity analysis did not reveal larger differences between the GM of children with Oedematsous and non-Oedoedemataous SAM. Our results may contribute to better understanding of SAM, and inspire for future research.
Telomere length varies among individuals and is controlled by multiple loci. In this study, we screened 112 wild-type Saccharomyces sensu stricto isolates. We found extensive telomere variation in S. paradoxus isolates, mostly belonging to the S. cerevisiae species. This phenotype correlated with their geographic origin: European strains were observed to have extremely short telomeres ( <150 bp ) whereas American isolates had telomesres approximately three times as long ( >400 bp ). Insertions of a URA3 gene near telomered cells allowed accurate analysis of individual telomeric lengths. We also identified several QTLs associated with telomericity and silencing variation. We validated by reciprocal hemizygosity that the YKU80 and TLC1 are telomer-length QTL in the two S. Paradoxus subpopulations. Furthermore, we propose that sequence divergence within the Ku heterodimer generates negative epistasis within one of the allelic combinations ( American-YKU70 and European-YKKU80 ) resulting in very short telomerres.
Decisions are not triggered by a single event but based on multiple sources of information. Sequential sampling models ( SSMs ) have greatly advanced the decision sciences by assuming decisions to emerge from a bounded evidence accumulation process so that response times ( RTs ) become predictable. Here, we demonstrate a difficulty of SSMs that occurs when people are not forced to respond at once but are allowed to sample information sequentially: The decision maker might decide to delay the choice and terminate the accumulation process temporarily, a scenario not accounted for by the standard SSM approach. We developed several SSMs for predicting RT distributions from two independent samples of an electroencephalography ( EEG ) and functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) study. In these studies, participants bought or rejected fictitious stocks based on sequentially presented cues and were free to respond. Standard SSM implementations did not describe RT distributions adequately. By adding a mechanism for postponing decisions to the model we obtained an accurate fit to the data. Time-frequency analysis of EEG data revealed alternating states of de- and increasing oscillatory power in beta-band frequencies ( 14–30 Hz ), indicating that responses were repeatedly prepared and inhibited and thus lending further support for the existence of a decision not to decide. Finally, the extended model accounted for the results of an adapted version of our paradigm in which participants had to press a button for sampling more information.
Hereditary nasal parakeratosis ( HNPK ) is an inherited skin disorder that leads to crusts and fissures on the nasal planum of Labrador Retrievers. We performed a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) to identify the causative variant of HNPKA in Labrador Retrivers. The analysis of shared haplotypes among the 13 cases defined a critical interval of 1. 6 Mb with 25 predicted genes. We re-sequenced the genome of one case at 38× coverage and detected 3 non-synonymous variants in the critical interval with respect to the reference genome assembly. We genotyped these variants in larger cohorts of dogs and only one was perfectly associated with the HNPKK phenotype in a cohort of more than 500 dogs. Our data suggest that the H NPK phenotype is not caused by hyperproliferation of keratinocytes, but rather delayed terminal differentiation of keratocytes. Thus, our data provide evidence that SUV39H2, a chromatin modifying enzyme, is involved in the epigenetic regulation of the keratinocyte differentiation ensuring proper stratification and tight sealing of the mammalian epidermis.
Influenza A viruses ( IAVs ) are a major reservoir of influenza A viruses in mammals, and swine are proposed as a “mixing vessel” for generating reassortants of avian and mammalian IAV viruses that could be of risk to mammals, including humans. However, how a transmissible reassortant emerges in swine is not well understood. Genomic analyses of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a group of co-housed pigs ( influenza-seronegative, avian H1N1 IAV–infected, and Swine H3N2 IAV-infected pigs ) identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortancies. Viruses recovered from lower respiratory tracts had the largest genomic diversity, and those recovered from turbinates and nasal wash fluids had the least. Reassortants from upper and lower respiratory tract epithelial cells seemed to select the type of viruses shed by the pigs; however, the tissue tropisms could have selected which reassortsant viruses would be shed from the pigs. Our study findings suggest that, during mixed infections of influenza IAV, genetic reassortments are likely to occur in the lower respiratory track, and tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transient transmissible virus.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the parasite Schistosoma mansoni. It is endemic in parts of the world, and in areas where the disease is endemic, an age-dependent build up of immune response and resistance to S. mansoni infection has been described. In this study, we examined the effects of maternal S. manoni infection and its treatment during pregnancy on the prevalence of S. Mansoni infection among offspring at age five years. We found no evidence that maternal S. mansoni and its treatments during pregnancy influence prevalence of infection or effector immune response to S. manoni. Praziquantel treatment of the parasite during pregnancy had no effect on the infection intensity or on the IL-10 responses to S S. Manoni infection. Cytokine ( IFNγ ) and antibody ( IgG1, Ig4 and IgE ) responses to SWA and SEA, as well as for T cell expression of FoxP3, were higher among infected than uninfected children. We also found no correlation between maternal s. manson infection and the intensity of infection among the offspring at the age of five years, but the observed effects on cytokine responses to schistosome antigens were higher in offspring of infected mothers than those who did not. This suggests that maternal maternal S mansoni may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness among the children at age 5 years. This might have implications for pathogenesis of the disease.
During an infectious challenge, macrophages have to be activated in order to allow efficient clearance of infectious pathogens, but how macrophage activation is coupled to increased clearance remains largely unknown. Here, we describe that inflammatory stimuli induced the reprogramming of the macrophaging endocytic machinery from receptor-mediated phagocytosis to macropinocytotic, allowing the rapid transfer of internalized cargo to lysosomes in a receptor-independent manner. Reprogramming occurred through protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation of coronin 1, thereby activating phosphoinositol ( PI ) -3-kinase activity necessary for macropic uptake. Expression of a phosphomimetic form of corononin 1 was sufficient to induce PI3-kicking and macropinetosis even in the absence of inflammatory stimuli. Together these results suggest a hitherto unknown mechanism to regulate the internalization and degradation of infectious material during inflammation.
Sleeping sickness ( Human African trypanosomiasis or HAT ) is a neglected tropical disease that is endemic in 36 countries across Africa. Tsetse are vectors of other species of Trypanosoma pathogenic to livestock and estimated to causes economic losses of US$4. 5bn per year. Tootse control is emerging as an important component in these efforts. In the West Nile region of Uganda, newly designed insecticide-treated targets are being deployed over an area of ∼500 km2. The operational area covers villages where tsetse control has not been conducted previously. The effectiveness of the targets will depend, in part, on their acceptance by the local community. We assessed knowledge, perceptions and acceptance of tmetse baits ( traps, targets ) in villages where they had or had not been used previously. We conducted sixteen focus group discussions with male and female participants in eight villages across Arua District. Discussions were audio recorded, translated and transcribed. We used thematic analysis to compare the views of both groups and identify salient themes. Despite the villages being less than 10 km apart, community members perceived deployed baits very differently. Villagers who had never seen traps before expressed fear, anxiety and panic when they first encountered them. This was related to associations with witchcraft and “ghosts from the river” which are traditionally linked with physical or mental illness, death and misfortune. Our results suggest that community acceptance of traps is a vital element for effective tse control.
Recombination is a fundamental biological process with profound evolutionary implications. Theory predicts that recombination increases the effectiveness of selection in natural populations. Yet, direct tests of this prediction have been restricted to qualitative trends due to the lack of detailed characterization of recombination rate variation across genomes and within species. The use of imprecise recombination rates can also skew population genetic analyses designed to assess the presence and mode of selection across genomes. Here we report the first integrated high-resolution description of genomic and population variation in recombination, which also distinguishes between the two outcomes of meiotic recombination: crossing over ( CO ) and gene conversion ( GC ). We characterized the products of 5, 860 female meioses in Drosophila melanogaster by genotyping a total of 139 million informative SNPs and mapped 106, 964 recombination events at a resolution down to 2 kilobases. This approach allowed us to generate whole-genome CO and GC maps as well as a detailed description of variation in the recombination among individuals of this species. Recombination events are associated with numerous sequence motifs and tend to occur within transcript regions, thus suggesting that chromatin accessibility favors double-strand breaks. All these non-independent layers of variation are important to understand and characterize in order to obtain relevant estimates of recombinination rates, and should be included in a new generation of population genetic models of the interaction between selection and linkage.
DNA methylation is an important epigenetic modification in eukaryotes including plants and animals. In Arabidopsis thaliana, DNA methylation mainly occurs in gene-coding regions, transposons, and other DNA repeats. In the past several years, the components of the RdDM pathway have been identified and characterized. In this study, we show that IDN2 and its paralogs, IDP1 and IDP2, form a complex required for RdDM. IDN1 is required for de novo methylation, siRNA accumulation, and transcriptional gene silencing, whereas IDP3 is required to bind double-stranded RNA. The IDN4-IDP1/IDP2 complex is essential for the formation of the IDN3-IDN2 complex and for the function of the complex.
Neutrophils are the first line of defense against invading pathogens and are rapidly recruited to the sites of Leishmania inoculation. During experimental Leishmaniasis infection, neutrophils contribute to parasite killing whereas co-inoculation of macrophils plus L. braziliensis had an opposite effect. Moreover, the co-culture of infected macrophages and neutrophil depletion enhanced disease in resistant mice whereas, in susceptible mice, the absence of neutrophiles inhibited parasite killing. Herein, we focused on understanding the interaction between neutrophill and L. Brazilensis, exploring cell activation and apoptotic fate. We found that neutrophile activation following contact with the parasite in vitro was mainly observed in infected and not in bystander cells. Neutrophil activation was also confirmed by the release of TNF-α and TNF–α and the activation and release of inflammatory mediators. This outcome may impact on parasite elimination, particularly at the early stages of infection.
Vaccination for the control of bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) in cattle is not currently used within any international control program, and is illegal within the EU. We explore the feasibility of introducing a new diagnostic test that Differentiate Infected from Vaccinated Animals ( DIVA ) within existing control programs. We use historical data from Great Britain ( GB ) to explore the potential of such supplemental use of vaccination. We find that the specificity of the test, rather than the sensitivity, is the greatest barrier to see a protective benefit of vaccination when used within the current statutory system of testing. The potential negative effects of vaccination could be mitigated through relaxation of testing, but this could potentially increase the hidden burden of infection within Officially TB Free herds. Using our models, we explore the range of the DivA test characteristics necessary to see an effective herd level benefit of vaccinating. We estimate that a DIVa specificity of at least 99. 85% and sensitivity of >40% is the most important factor determining whether BCG vaccination can provide a protective economic benefit.
Trichuriasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the whipworm Trichuris trichiura. Current drug treatment options are limited and lack efficacy against the worm, preventing an eradication programme. It is therefore important to develop new treatments for trichurism. We screened a library of 480 novel drug-like small molecules for compounds causing paralysis of the adult parasite. We identified a class of dihydrobenz[e][1, 4]oxazepin-2 ( 3H ) -one compounds with anthelmintic activity against T. muris. Further screening of structurally related compounds and resynthesis of the most potent molecules led to the identification of 20 active dihydroxybenzoxazepsinones, a class not previously implicated in nematode control. The best compounds from this chemotype show low cytotoxicity against murine gut epithelial cells, demonstrating selectivity for the parasite. This supports an alternative strategy of developing a therapeutic that acts in the environment, perhaps via a spray, to interrupt the parasite lifecycle.
Protein–protein interaction networks, constructed from mRNA expression data, do not capture the fact that the actual interactions that occur in vivo depend on prevailing physiological conditions. For instance, actively expressed proteins vary amongst the tissues in an organism and also change over time. Thus, the specific parts of the interactome that are active, as well as their organisational form, might depend a great deal on where and when one examines the network. One way to incorporate such information is to use a link-centric approach, in which one can define the topological properties of hubs as opposed to nodes. Here, we use a well-known measure of link significance known as betweenness centrality, and examine its relation to phenomena such as protein co-expression and functional overlap. We find little evidence of a date/party dichotomy for hubs in protein interaction networks. Crucially, these few hubs do not display particularly low expression correlation, undermining the idea of a link between this quantity and hub function. Our results suggest that thinking in terms of a ‘date/party hub dichotomy’ is not meaningful, and it might be more useful to conceive of roles for protein-protein interactions rather than for individual proteins.
Understanding transmission dynamics in the early stages of an infectious disease outbreak is essential for informing effective control policy. Valuable insights can be gained by the reconstruction of the transmission tree, which describes the history of infectious events at the resolution of individual cases. Recent years have seen significant progress in the development of statistical and computational tools for inferring such trees, with a major emphasis placed on the analysis of whole genome sequence ( WGS ) data. However, a fundamental and so far largely unaddressed limitation of WGS data in informing outbreak reconstruction is the requirement for genetic diversity to accumulate on epidemiological timescales. We introduce here the concept of ‘transmission divergence’, defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs. Using parameter values obtained by literature review, we simulate outbreak scenarios alongside sequence evolution using two models described in the literature to describe transmission divergence of ten major outbreak-causing pathogens. We find that while mean values vary significantly between the pathogens considered, their transmission divergence is generally very low, with many outbreaks characterised by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs, suggesting that transmission divergence will often be insufficient to fully resolve transmission chains. Our results highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in certain outbreak scenarios, and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit of outbreak reconstruction tools to integrate other types of epidemiological data.
Dosage compensation in mammals is achieved by random inactivation of one of the two X chromosomes in both sexes and random inactivation of one X chromosome in females. Although some genes escape XCI in somatic cells, some genes remain bi-allelically expressed in females, suggesting that the mechanisms that control tissue-specific differences are not well defined. To identify escape genes in vivo and to explore molecular mechanisms that regulate this process we developed a new binomial model to compare the XCI status of genes in mouse tissues and cells with skewed XCI and distinguishable alleles based on single nucleotide polymorphisms. Using this resource novel escape genes have been identified. Escape genes are associated with an open chromatin structure and CTCF binding may influence the definition of differential chromatin architecture of the X.
Plasmodium falciparum is the causative agent of malaria, causing hundreds of millions of illnesses each year, and can result in severe morbidity and mortality, especially in children. Cysteine proteases of malaria parasites are intimately involved in a variety of physiological processes essential for the parasite's survival. The potential roles of the cysteine proteins of P. falcibarum in hemoglobin degradation in the acidic parasite food vacuole and erythrocyte rupture via cleavage of cytoskeletal proteins followed by merozoite release have been well characterized. Genes encoding three closely related FPs cluster on chromosome 11 within a 12-kb stretch, called the cystine protease island. Vivapain ( VX ) -2 and VX-3 have been characterized in P. vivax, but comprehensive studies of VX -4 have been hindered by an inability to culture P.. v.., which might offer an efficient mechanism for the specific cleaving of different substrates in different intracellular environments. In the present study, we describe the biochemical properties of a novel cystein protease of P. vivx, VX4, which displays unusual pH-dependent substrate specificity. VX 4 was localized in the food vacucoles and cytoplasm of the erythroptic stage of P, and was detected at neutral/acidic and acidic pH, respectively. The protease showed maximal activity against actin at neutral pH, and that against plasmepsin 4 and hemoglobin was detected in neutral and acidic conditions, respectively, suggesting that it might have undergone a kind of convergent evolution events in these basal malaria genomes. The study provides a simple way to change expression levels or to enlarge protein pools with non-overlapping functions.
Acetogens have been investigated as promising alternative to convert waste gases containing CO2, H2, and CO into multi-carbon commodities. However, other critical components of the cell ( e. g., production of macromolecules and mechanistic utilization of metals, vitamins, and cofactors ) are usually absent in these models, thereby limiting in-depth understanding of cellular life. Here we present a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolycular synthesis ( ME-model ) to gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The model represents the first ME- model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactor, and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions, thus significantly broadens the scope and predictability of this model. The use of the ME-models revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in acetogens and accurately predicted secretion of multiple fermentation products. Predicting overflow metabolism is of particular interest since it enables new design strategies, e. e., the formation of glycerol, a novel product for C. l. lj. l, thus broadening the metabolic capability for this model microbe. Furthermore, prediction and experimental validation of changing secretion rates based on different metal availability opens the window into fermentation optimization.
Genetic variation plays a key role in shaping phenotypic diversity amongst individuals, where the underlying mechanisms may include polymorphisms that alter protein coding sequences or changes in regulatory sequences that affect the function of a gene or related gene networks. These alterations can affect heritable quantitative traits as well as susceptibility to common complex diseases such as osteoporosis. Here, we use a panel of human osteoblasts ( HObs ) to carry out a transcriptomic survey, similar to recent studies in lymphoblastoid cell lines ( LCLs ). The distinct nature of HObs and LCL is reflected by the preferential grouping of cell type–specific genes within biologically and functionally relevant pathways unique to each tissue type. We performed cis-association analysis with SNP genotypes to identify genetic variations of transcript isoforms, and our analysis indicates that differential expression of transcripts in HObs is also partly controlled by cis-regulatory genetic variants. These isoforms are regulated by genetic variants in both a tissue-specific and tissue-independent fashion, and these associations have been confirmed by RT–PCR validation. Our study suggests that multiple transcript isoform variants are often present in both tissues and that genetic control may affect the relative expression of one isoform to another, rather than having an all-or-none effect.
The yeast Saccharomyces eubayanus is a lager-brewing yeast. In this study, we investigated the evolution of maltotriose, a major carbohydrate in brewer’s wort, in S. cerevisiae. We found that maltotriaose utilization is encoded by the subtelomeric MAL gene family, and requires transporters for maltotraption. In contrast to most yeast strains, S. eubayaus lacks maltotrioose transporter genes, which enable uptake of the α-tri-glucoside maltotroose. In S. coli, the MALT gene family is localized in subtelomersic regions of the genome, which are highly conserved in yeast. We hypothesized that evolution of MAL genes could facilitate the emergence of maltiotriose utilization by neofunctionalization. The evolution process leading to maltotrialose utilization in S. eubayas is likely to have involved mechanisms similar to those observed in the present study.
Influenza viruses have been and continue to cause substantial morbidity and mortality. Timely and accurate assessment of their impact on human death is invaluable for influenza planning but presents a substantial challenge, as current approaches rely mostly on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance. In this study, by proposing a novel host-virus interaction model, we have established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each ( sub ) type of seasonal influenza viruses. Based on this relationship, we further develop a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A ( H1N1 ) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A ( A ( B ) and B strains. Rapid estimation of influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should help formulate a cost-effective response for influenza control and prevention.
The Asian soybean rust fungus, Phakopsora pachyrhizi, causes severe soybean disease epidemics. The molecular mechanisms by which the plant immune system suppresses plant immunity are poorly understood. The genomes of all rust fungi encode many small, secreted cysteine-rich proteins ( SSCRP ). While these proteins are thought to function within the host, their roles are completely unknown. Here, we present the characterization of P. pachyrshizis effector candidate 23 ( PpEC23 ), a SSCR that we show to suppress plant immunity and to interact with soybean transcription factor GmSPL12l, a negative immune regulator. Collectively, our data present evidence for a virulence function of a rust SSCP and suggest that Ppec23 is able to suppress soybean immune responses and physically interact with the soybean transcript transcription factor, a positive regulator of soybean defenses.
Chlamydia trachomatis infects the human fallopian tube and causes a broad range of acute and chronic diseases in humans. Chlamydia is also known to infect and damage the human cervix and cause urinary or genital tract infections. Ctr infection can result in community-acquired pneumonia and other respiratory infections. In this study, we have identified EphrinA2 receptor ( EphA2 ) as a chlamydial adherence and invasion receptor that induces PI3 kinase ( PI3K ) activation, promoting chlamidial development. Eph-EphA1 is also employed by Ctr to subvert host signaling for extended times after entry to ensure efficient development and protection of the host cell from apoptosis induction. Our findings provide the first evidence for a host cell surface receptor that is exploited for invasion as well as for receptor-mediated intracellular signaling to facilitate chlamydia replication.
Many neurons have been shown to exhibit dendritic excitability through the expression of a variety of voltage-gated ion channels. However, despite experimental and theoretical efforts undertaken in the past decades, the role of this excitability for some kind of neuronal computation has remained elusive. Here we show that, owing to very general properties of excitable media, the average output of a model of an active dendrite tree is a highly non-linear function of its afferent rate, attaining extremely large dynamic ranges ( above 50 dB ). Moreover, the model yields double-sigmoid response functions as experimentally observed in retinal ganglion cells. We claim that enhancement of dynamic range is the primary functional role of active dendsrites. We predict that neurons with larger dendrites should have larger dynamic range and that blocking of active conductances should lead to a decrease in dynamic range.
The ability to infer the activity of a gene from time-series transcriptome data has been extensively studied and applied to a range of problems in drug discovery, cancer research, and biotechnology. The application of existing methods is commonly based on implicit assumptions on the biological processes under study. First, the measurements of mRNA abundance obtained in transcriptomics experiments are taken to be representative of protein concentrations. Second, the observed changes in gene expression are assumed to be solely due to transcription factors and other specific regulators, while changes in the activity and global physiological effects are neglected. While convenient in practice, these assumptions are often not valid and bias the reverse engineering process. Here we systematically investigate, using a combination of models and experiments, the importance of this bias and possible corrections. We show that the integration of the above information into the inference procedure improves the quality of the models inferred from the data. Moreover, we show by simulation that these improvements are expected to be even stronger for systems in which protein concentrations have longer half-lives and protein concentrations vary more strongly across conditions than in the FliA-FlgM module.
Zoonotic diseases are associated with specific habitats and are often presaged by changes in local environmental conditions. However, relatively little is understood about the sporadic occurrence of local reservoir populations, the duration and spatial relationships ( size and connectedness ) of suitable habitats for reservoirs, or the relationship between host populations and the environment. This temporal dynamism of host populations may play a significant role in the risk associated with pathogens such as hantavirus. This study characterizes the landscape distribution and spatio-temporal dynamics of Oligoryzomys fulvescens, an important mammalian reservoir in Central America. Information collected in a longitudinal study of rodent populations in the community of Agua Buena in Tonosí, Panama, between April 2006 and December 2009 was analyzed using non-spatial analyses ( box plots ) and explicit spatial statistical tests ( correlograms, SADIE and LISA ). A 90 node grid was built ( raster format ) to design a base map. The area between the nodes was 0. 09 km2 and the total study area was 6. 43 km2 ( 2. 39 x 2. 69 km ). The temporal assessment dataset was divided into four periods for each year studied: the dry season, rainy season, and two months-long transitions between seasons ( the months of April and December ). There were heterogeneous patterns in the population densities and degrees of dispersion of O. fulvescans that varied across seasons and among years. This variation was associated with seasonality, as well as anthropogenic pressures that occurred with agricultural activities. These factors help define the characteristics of the occurrence, timing, intensity and duration of synanthropic populations affected by human populations and, consequently, possible exposure that local human populations experience.
Influenza A viruses are responsible for ∼500, 000 deaths annually and are a substantial threat to human health. To monitor genetic and antigenic changes, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) runs a global surveillance program. Quantification of viral antigenic phenotypes is done with the hemagglutination inhibition assay, which measures the ability of an antiserum to inhibit the agglutination of red blood cells by a viral antigen. Antigenic cartography, involving multidimensional scaling of log-normalized HI titers, subsequently generates an accurate low-dimensional representation of the antigenic distances between antigen–antiserum pairs. We have developed a method for inferring ‘antigenic trees’ for the major viral surface protein hemaglutinin. Our method identifies known antigenic types and the amino acid changes associated with the type transitions. Additionally, it identified both known and novel sites, and amino acid change with antigenic impact in the evolution of influenza A ( H3N2 ) viruses from 1968 to 2003. The technique can also be applied for inference of ‘phenotype trees' and genotype–phenotype relationships from other types of pairwise phenotype distances.
Papillomaviruses are small, nonenveloped DNA viruses that cause mostly benign lesions. HPV16 is the most prevalent, and the best studied, and is the first virus to infect human cells. The virus is able to enter the nucleus, when the host cells differentiate into spinous and granular keratinocytes. During early infection, the virus is efficiently internalized by endocytosis, routed to the perinuclear area, and partially uncoated in interphase cells. During mitosis, the viral DNA and L2 associated with host cell chromatin on the metaphase plate. Hence, we propose that HPV16 requires nuclear envelope breakdown during mitosis for access of the vDNA to the nucleoplasm. The results accentuate the value of genes found by RNAi screens for investigation of viral infections. The list of cell functions required during HPV16 infection will, moreover, provide a resource for future virus-host cell interaction studies.
Black Sigatoka or black leaf streak disease ( BLSD ) is the most significant foliar disease of banana worldwide. Due to the lack of effective host resistance, management of this disease requires frequent fungicide applications, which greatly increase the economic and environmental costs to produce banana. The fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis is a major threat to global banana production, surpassing US $500 million per year. The genome of P. fijienis is massively expanded by LTR retrotransposons, making it the largest genome within the Dothideomycetes. Melting-curve assays suggest that the genomes of two closely related members of the Sigataka disease complex, P. eumusae and P. musae, also are expanded. A homologue of the Cladosporium fulvum Avr4 effector, PfAvr4, was identified in the genome of this fungus. Infiltration of the purified PfAVR4 protein into leaves of the resistant banana variety Calcutta 4 resulted in a hypersensitive-like response. This result suggests that Calcutte 4 could carry an unknown resistance gene recognizing PfAVr4. Besides adding to our understanding of the overall Dothidomycete genome structures, the genome will aid in developing fungicide treatment schedules to combat this pathogen and in improving the efficiency of banana breeding programs.
Changes in gene regulation play a key role in the evolution of morphological traits. However, it is not clear how these changes occur. In this work, we introduce a novel evolutionary framework through which lineage-specific regulatory elements can be inferred on a genome-wide scale. We use a birth-death model to infer ancestral states of a given motif without the use of the base-by-base alignment details in the underlying cross-species sequence alignment. Gains and losses of regulatory elements have been explicitly used both to improve cross-genome sequence comparisons and to detect cis-regulatory modules. We estimate that a substantial fraction of binding sites in humans have origins since the divergence with mouse. Over 15% of all binding sites are unique to hominids. Such elements are often enriched near genes associated with specific pathways, and harbor more common SNPs than older binding sites. These results support the ability of our method to identify lineage-related regulatory elements and help understand their roles in shaping variation in gene expression across species.
The zebrafish is a fascinating vertebrate model for studying this process since unlike mammals, direct exposure of most of its tissues to light leads to local clock entrainment. Importantly, light induces the expression of a set of genes including certain clock genes in most zebra fish cell types in vivo and in vitro. However, the mechanism linking light to gene expression remains poorly understood. To elucidate this key mechanism, here we focus on how light regulates transcription of the zebrafd period2 ( per2 ) gene. Using transgenic fish and stably transfected cell line–based assays, we define a Light Responsive Module ( LRM ) within the per2 promoter. The LRM lies proximal to the transcription start site and is both necessary and sufficient for light-driven gene expression and also for a light-dependent circadian clock regulation. Curiously, the LRM sequence is strongly conserved in other vertebrate per2 genes, even in species lacking directly light-sensitive peripheral clocks. Our results point to a crosstalk between circadian clock and light-regulated transcriptional control as being a key feature of the PER2 gene regulation.
Parasites causing malaria need to migrate in order to penetrate tissue barriers and enter host cells. Here we show that the actin filament-binding protein coronin regulates gliding motility in Plasmodium berghei sporozoites, the highly motile forms of a rodent malaria-causing parasite transmitted by mosquitoes. Parasites lacking coronin show motility defects that impair colonization of the mosquito salivary glands but not migration in the skin, yet result in decreased transmission efficiency. We also show that coronin is required for efficient transmission of the parasite from mosquitoes to mice. We speculate that calcium and cAMP-mediated signaling regulate a switch from rapid parasite motility to host cell invasion by differentially influencing actin dynamics.
Amphotericin B is an increasingly important tool in efforts to reduce the global disease burden posed by Leishmania parasites. With few other chemotherapeutic options available for the treatment of leishmaniasis, the potential for emergent resistance to this drug is a considerable threat. Here, we characterised four novel amphotericin-resistant Leishmann mexicana lines. All lines exhibited altered sterol biosynthesis, and hypersensitivity to pentamidine. Whole genome sequencing revealed resistance-associated mutation of the sterol C24-methyltransferase ( SMT ) responsible for drug resistance and altered sterols biosynthesis. Additional loss of the miltefosine transporter was associated with one of those lines. In all cases, reduced overall expression was associated by loss of 3’ untranslated region of the dominant gene copy, resulting from structural variations at this locus. Local regions of sequence homology, between the gene copies themselves, and also due to the presence of SIDER1 retrotransposon elements that promote multi-gene amplification, correlate to these structural variations. Whilst such repeat sequence-mediated instability is known in Leishmanial genomes, its presence associated with resistance to a major antileishmanials drug, with no evidence of associated fitness costs, is a significant concern.
The encoding of sensory information in the human brain is thought to be optimised by two principal processes: ‘prediction’ uses stored information to guide the interpretation of forthcoming sensory events, and ‘attention’ prioritizes these events according to their behavioural relevance. Despite the ubiquitous contributions of attention and prediction to various aspects of perception and cognition, it remains unknown how they interact to modulate information processing in the brain. A recent extension of predictive coding theory suggests that attention optimises the expected precision of predictions by modulating the synaptic gain of prediction error units. Because prediction errors code for the difference between predicted and observed stimulus features, this model would suggest that attention increases the selectivity for mismatch information, consistent with the mismatch information model. Here, we applied forward encoding models to neural activity recorded via electroencephalography ( EEG ) as human observers performed a simple visual task to test for the effect of attention on both mismatch and feature information. Participants attended or ignored a periodic stream of gratings, the orientations of which could be either predictable, surprising, or unpredictable. We found that surprising stimuli evoked neural responses that were encoded according to the differences between predicted, observed, and predicted features, and that attention facilitated the encoding of this type of information. These findings advance our understanding of how attention and predictors modulate sensory information processing, as well as support the theory that attention maximises precision expectations during hierarchical inference by increasing the loss of prediction errors.
Trypanosoma brucei is the most prevalent form of the human-infective parasite and is responsible for greater than 90% of reported African sleeping sickness cases. The adaptive immune response of vertebrates is rendered largely ineffective due to the parasite's ability to cyclically evade the immune response by changing the variable surface glycoprotein ( VSG ) antigens on the cell surface. There are two distinct sub-groups of T. b. gambiense that differ genetically and by human serum resistance phenotypes. The group 1 T. bruceis is resistant to TLF-1 due in-part to reduced uptake of TLF, but also to reduced expression of the haptoglobin-hemoglobin receptor ( HpHbR ) gene. Here we investigate if this is also true in group 2 parasites. Isogenic resistant and sensitive group 2 parasite are derived and compared to other T. bruceins. Both resistant and sensitivity lines express the HpBR gene at similar levels and internalized fluorescently labeled TLF in a similar fashion to group 1. However, group 2 T. brhodesiense is innately resistant to APOL1, which could be based on the same mechanism. Thus there are differences in the mechanism of human serum serum resistance between group 1 and 2 parasites, raising the question: do groups 1 and two T. rhodesense share a common mechanism of resistance?
HIV-1 infection is the main obstacle to the eradication of the virus from infected individuals. HIV-1 latency is a mechanism of transcriptional suppression that allows retroviruses to evade host immune responses and antiretroviral drugs. However, the role of DNA methylation in the control of HIV-infected latency has never been unambiguously demonstrated, in contrast to the apparent importance of transcription factors and chromatin structure, and has never previously been studied in HIV-2-positive patients. Here, we show in an in vitro model of reactivable latency and in a latent reservoir of latent virus in an aviremic patient that CpG methylation of the 5′ long terminal repeat ( LTR ) is an additional epigenetic restriction mechanism, which controls resistance of latent HIV to reactivation signals and thus determines the stability of the latency. We show that the latency controlled solely by transcriptional interference and by chromatin-dependent mechanisms in the absence of significant promoter DNA methylations tends to be leaky and easily reactivable. In the latent reservoir, we found HIV–1 promoters and enhancers to be hypermethylated and resistant to reactivivation, as opposed to the hypomethylated 5′ LTR in viremic patients. We propose a two-step model of epigenetic control of latency by Cpg methylation, which is an important epigenetic mechanism that maintains the latency by preventing their reactivation.
Genomic variation maps of human as well as of model organism populations are required to elucidate the relationship between genetic and phenotypic variation. Here, we present a comprehensive, nucleotide resolution catalog of variants of all major types ( i. e., single-, multi-nucleotide-, and structural variation ) for 39 Drosophila melanogaster lines. We identify more than 3. 6 million distinct variants, among which were more than 800, 000 unique insertions, deletions, indels, and complex variants ( 1 to 6, 000 bp ). While the SNP density is higher near other variants, we find that variants themselves are not mutagenic, nor are regions with high variant density particularly mutation-prone. Rather, our data suggest that the elevated SNP density around variants is mainly due to population-level processes. We also provide insights into the regulatory architecture of gene expression variation in adult flies by mapping cis-expression quantitative trait loci ( cis-eQTLs ) for more than 2, 000 genes. Indels comprise around 10% of all cis-enriched gene expression and show larger effects than SNP cis-esQTL. In addition, we identified two-fold more gene associations in males as compared to females and found that most cis-EQTL are sex-specific, revealing a partial decoupling of the genomic architecture between the sexes and the importance of genetic factors in mediating sex-biased gene expression. Finally, we performed RNA-seq-based allelic expression imbalance analyses in the offspring of crosses between sequenced lines, which revealed that the majority of strong cis-existential gene expression is validated in heterozygous individuals.
The neural drive to muscles is the ensemble of discharge timings of motor neurons innervating different muscles. The neural drive is commonly used as an estimator of the neural drive and therefore to infer sources of synaptic input to motor neurons. Loss of EMG amplitude due to the overlap of motor unit action potentials ( amplitude cancellation ) may distort the spectrum of the rectified EMG and thereby its correlation with the neural motor drive. In this study, we investigated the impact of amplitude cancellation on this correlation using analytical derivations and a computational model of motor neuron activity, force, and the EMG signal. First, we demonstrated analytically that amplitude cancellation in many conditions disrupts the ability of the sensor drive to accurately represent the motor drive to muscle. Second, the simulations showed that the correlation between the amplitude cancellation and the motor motor drive is higher than in experimental conditions for the rectification of the motor units. Finally, the results indicate that amplitude cancel is a limitation related to the analysis of neural drive. This limitation has implications for many methods for investigating the neural control of movement.
Aluminium ( Al ) stress is a major cause of plant growth and developmental problems. Aluminium is highly abundant in the soil, but only presents toxicity problems to plants in acid ( pH≤5 ) soils, where it becomes solubilized into the Al3+ ion. Al-induced root growth inhibition is mediated by the phytohormone auxin, which is present for the most part as indole-3-acetic acid ( IAA ). Al stress-induced local auxin biosynthesis in the root-apex transition zone ( TZ ) is dependent on ethylene signalling. Here, we show that YUCCA ( YUC3 ), which encodes flavin monooxygenase-like proteins, regulates local auxins biosynthesis and root growth in response to Al stress. We demonstrate that ethylene signaling is involved in the local up-regulation of local auxinic biosynthesis. The Al stress–induced local upregulation of YUCs is dependent upon ethylene-insensitive 3 ( EIN3 ). Ethylene-inensitive 3 is involved into the direct regulation of the YUC9 transcription in this process.
Natural killer ( NK ) cells differentiate virus-infected cells from healthy cells through the integration of complex signals from activating and inhibitory receptors, which in primates include the highly polymorphic killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( KIRs ). Whereas the molecular basis of ligand recognition for the activating KIR is not fully understood, inhibitory KIR molecules selectively bind to subsets of major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules bearing particular sequence motifs in their α1-domains. We previously demonstrated that the binding of a common MHC class I molecule in the rhesus macaque, Mamu-A1*002, is stabilized by certain simian immunodeficiency virus ( SIV ) peptides, but not by others. Here we show that SIV peptides bound by Mamu–A1 have the ability to inhibit the cytolytic activity of primary Mamu KIR3DL05+ NK cells, including three immunodominant CD8+ T cell epitopes that stabilize Mamu binding to Mamu. These peptides therefore either stabilize, or do not interfere with, the recognition of Mamu by inhibitory ligands. These results demonstrate that viral peptides can differentially affect NK cell responses by modulating MHC-class I interactions with their ligands, and provide a mechanism by which immunosuppressed viruses may evade NK cell response.
Bacterial pathogens must sense, respond and adapt to a myriad of dynamic microenvironmental stressors to survive. Adaptation is key for colonization and long-term ability to endure fluctuations in nutrient availability and inflammatory processes. We hypothesize that strains adapted to survive nutrient deprivation are more adept for colonization. In this study, we detected microevolution in response to transient nutrient limitation through mutation of icc. The mutation results in decreased 3', 5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase activity in nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ). In a preclinical model of NTHi-induced otitis media ( OM ), we observed a significant decrease in the recovery of effusion from ears infected with the icc mutant strain. Clinically, resolution of OM coincides with the clearance of middle ear fluid. In contrast to this clinical paradigm, we observe that NTH I formed significantly more intracellular bacterial communities ( IBCs ) than the parental strain early during experimental OM. Although the number of IBC was low at early stages of OM, the number increased at later stages that coincided with absence of recoverable effusion, suggesting the presence of a mucosal reservoir following resolution of clinical disease. These data provide the first insight into NTH i microevolved during nutritional limitation and provide the basis for the identification of novel therapeutic targets to quell infection.
Iron plays a central role in host-pathogen-interaction. Iron plays not only multiple roles for bacterial growth and pathogenicity, but also for modulation of innate immune responses. Hepcidin is a key regulator of host iron metabolism triggering degradation of the iron exporter ferroportin. Although iron overload in humans is known to increase susceptibility to Burkholderia pseudomallei, it is unclear how the pathogen competes with the host for the metal during infection. This study aimed to investigate whether B. pseudomlei, the causative agent of melioidosis, modulates iron balance and how regulation of host cell iron content affects intracellular bacterial proliferation. Upon infection of primary macrophages with the pathogenic bacterium, expression of ferroPORTin was downregulated resulting in higher iron availability within macrophage-like cells. Exogenous modification of iron export function by hepcidin or iron supplementation by ferric ammonium citrate led to increased iron pool stimulating the bacterial growth, whereas limitation of iron availability significantly ameliorated bacterial clearance, attenuated serum cytokine levels and improved survival of infected mice. Our data indicate that modulation of the cellular iron balance is likely to be a strategy of B. Pseudomalleis to improve iron acquisition and to restrict antibacterial immune effector mechanisms and thereby to promote its intracllular growth. Moreover, we provide evidence that iron chelating drugs might be an additional therapeutic option.
Proteins frequently accomplish their biological function by collective atomic motions. Yet the identification of collective motions related to a specific protein function from, e. g., a molecular dynamics trajectory is often non-trivial. Here, we propose a novel technique termed “functional mode analysis” that aims to detect the collective motion that is maximally correlated to a particular protein function. Based on an ensemble of structures, together with an arbitrary “function quantity” ( functional quantity ) that quantifies the functional state of the protein, the technique detects the collective motions that are maximally related to the functional quantity. The functional quantity could correspond to a geometric, electrostatic, or chemical observable, or any other variable that is relevant to the function of the proteins. In addition, the motion that displays the largest likelihood to induce a substantial change in the functional quality is estimated from the given protein ensemble. Two different correlation measures are applied: first, the Pearson correlation coefficient that measures linear correlation only; and second, the mutual information that can assess any kind of interdependence. Detecting the maximally correlation allows one to derive a model for the functional states in terms of a single collective coordinate.
Nuclear genes of euglenids and marine diplonemids harbor atypical, nonconventional introns, which are not observed in the genomes of other eukaryotes. Nonconventional and spliceosomal introns do not have the conserved borders characteristic for splice-leader sequences or the sequence complementary to U1 snRNA at the 5' end. They form a stable secondary structure bringing together both exon/intron junctions, nevertheless, this conformation does not resemble the form of self-splicing or tRNA introns. In this work, we examined the order of intron removal from Euglena gracilis transcripts of the tubA and gapC genes, which contain two types of introns: conventional and non-conventional. The relative order of intron excision was compared for pairs of intronal pairs belonging to different types. Furthermore, intermediate products of splicing were analyzed using the PacBio Next Generation Sequencing system. The analysis led to the main conclusion that conventional introns are removed in a rapid way but later than spliceOSomal intron. Moreover, the observed accumulation of transcripts with conventional intron removed and nonconconventional present may suggest the existence of a time gap between the two types.
Coxsackieviruses ( CV ) are common human pathogens that typically cause a self-limited febrile illness in infants, but cases of severe infection can manifest in acute myocarditis. Chronic consequences of mild CVB infection are unknown, though there is an epidemiologic association between early subclinical infections and late heart failure, raising the possibility of subtle damage leading to late-onset dysfunction, or chronic ongoing injury due to inflammatory reactions during latent infection. Here we describe a mouse model of juvenile CVB3 infection which showed no evident symptoms, either immediately following infection or in adult mice. However following physiological or pharmacologically-induced cardiac stress, juvenile-infected adult mice underwent cardiac hypertrophy and dilation indicative of progression to heart failure. Evaluation of the vasculature in the hearts of adult mice subjected to cardiac stress showed a compensatory increase in CD31+ blood vessel formation, although this effect was suppressed in juvenile- infected mice. Moreover, CVB 3 efficiently infected juvenile c-kit+ cells, and cardiac progenitor cell numbers were reduced in the heart of juvenile-infected adult animals. These results suggest that the exhausted cardiac progeneritor cell pool following juvenile CVBs may impair the heart's ability to increase capillary density to adapt to increased load.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a gram-negative flagellate bacterium that causes melioidosis, a disease endemic to Southeast Asia and northern Australia. The host inflammasome is activated in response to intracellular bacterial pathogens by the engagement of pattern-recognition receptors ( PRRs ) including membrane-bound Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) and cytosolic nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain ( NOD ) -like receptors. NLRC4 specifically responds to a functional type III ( apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase recruitment domain ( CARD ) ) and caspases-1 are the most extensively-studied NLR molecules. In the present study we show that activation of NLRC-mediated caspasis-1 is dependent on NLRC 4, but not on NLRP3 in the early phase of macrophage infection, whereas at later time points caspace-1 activation and cell death is NLR4-independent. In addition, we found that caspasome-independent activation of the NLRC3 inner rod protein BsaK was abolished in macrophages after infection with a wild-type and mutated T3SS3 effector protein BopE. Our results indicate a major role for a functional NLRCR inner rod in early NLRC2-mediated activation and pyroptosis and a contribution of late caspose-1-dependent and -independent cell death mechanisms in the pathogenesis of Burkholderia.
Pollen–stigma interactions are essential for pollen germination. However, the internal signaling of pollen is poorly understood. Here, we show that KINβγ is a plant-specific subunit of the SNF1-related protein kinase 1 complex, which plays important roles in the regulation of plant development. Kinβγ mutant pollen can not germinate on the stigma, which results from the defective hydration of the mutant pollen. Further analysis revealed that the hydration and germination of mutant pollen was compromised, and the structure of the mitochondria and peroxisomes was destroyed, and their numbers were significantly reduced compared with those in the wild type. Furthermore, we found that the kinβγ mutants exhibited reduced levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in pollen. The addition of H2O2 in vitro partially compensated for the reduced water absorption of the mutants pollen, and reducing ROS levels in pollen by overexpressing Arabidopsis CATALASE 3 resulted in compromised hydration. These results indicate that Arabidinia KIN βγ is critical for the regulation and regulation of ROS levels by mediating the biogenesis of mitochondria in pollen, which is required for pollen–stigmas interactions.
RNase III is a key enzyme for double-stranded ( ds ) RNA processing reactions in both bacterial and eukaryotic systems. RNase III has been shown to be involved in the regulation of small RNAs and small interfering ( si ) –RNAs in bacteria. However, its role in the production of micro ( mi ) –RNA in bacteria is not well understood. Here we show that the essential role of RNases III in B. subtilis is to protect it from the expression of toxin genes borne by two prophages, Skin and SPβ, through antisense RNA. We further explore the mechanism of RNase I–mediated decay of the txpA mRNA when paired to its antisense RNase RatA, both in vivo and in vitro. We show that in the absence of these two pro-virus genes, the txPA mRNA and yonT mRNA are degraded by an unknown mechanism. We also show that deletion of the RNA-encoding mRNAs is possible and the growth rate of the resulting strains is hardly affected.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by the parasitic filarial nematode Brugia malayi. The ability of Brugias to modulate host biology is recognized but the mechanisms by which such manipulation occurs are obscure. An emerging paradigm is the release of parasite-derived extracellular vesicles ( EV ) containing bioactive proteins and small RNA species that allow secretion of parasite effector molecules and their potential trafficking to host tissues. We have previously described EV release from the infectious L3 stage B. malaysi and here we profile vesicle release across all intra-mammalian life stages ( microfilariae, L3, L4, adult male and female worms ). We show that Brugiae EVs are internalized by murine macrophages with no preference for life stage suggesting a uniform mechanism for effector molecule trafficking. Further, we show that the process of EV release is inhibited by ivermectin, which not only highlights a mechanism of action for this drug but also suggests vesicular release may be leveraged as an assay platform in future drug discovery efforts.
Scabies and impetigo are common, important and treatable skin conditions. Reports from several Pacific island countries show extremely high prevalence of these two conditions, but for many countries, including the Solomon Islands, there is a paucity of epidemiological data. Ten rural villages in the Western Province of the Solomon islands were included in the study, chosen so that data collection could be integrated with an existing project investigating clinical and serological markers of yaws. All residents were eligible to participate, and 1908 people were enrolled. The total unweighted prevalence of scabies was 19. 2% ( 95% confidence interval 17. 5–21. 0 ), and age and gender weighted prevalence 19. 2%. The highest prevalence was found in infants < 1 year of age ( 34. 1% of infants compared to 34. 6% of adults ) and children aged 1–4 years ( 25. 7%, AOR 2. 6, 95%CI 1. 7–3. 9 ). Scabies affected two or more body regions in 80. 9% of participants, and 4. 4% of scabies cases were classified as severe. The prevalence of active impetigus was 32. 7%; with a higher prevalence in children aged 2–4. 5. Scabies infestation was associated with active impeteigo infection ( AOR 1. 6–2. 6 ) ; with 41. 1% also having scabies. Community control strategies for scabies may reduce the burden of both conditions and their downstream complications.
Neurogenesis is a process that occurs in the hippocampus, a region of the brain that gives rise to the olfactory bulb interneurons and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. It is known to occur in two areas of the mammalian brain, the subventricular zone, which give rise to olfo- and dentate-gyrus, but its function remains unclear. Here we used a genetic approach to map variation in adult hippocampal neurogenesis in heterogeneous stock mice, a stock descended from eight inbred progenitor strains ( A/J, AKR, BALB/cJ, C57BL/6J, and LP/J ) and maintained for over 50 generations. We found a highly significant correlation with the proportions of CD8+ versus CD4+ T lymphocyte subsets. This correlation reflected shared genetic loci, with the exception of the H-2Ea locus that had a dominant influence on T cell subsets but no impact on neurogengenesis. Our results reveal an organismal impact, broader than hitherto suspected, of the natural genetic variation that controls T cell development and homeostasis.
Chagas disease is a major health problem in Latin America, and an emerging infectious disease in the US. Previously, we screened the Trypanosoma cruzi sequence database by a computational/bioinformatics approach, and identified antigens that exhibited the characteristics of vaccine candidates. We investigated the protective efficacy of a DNA-prime/protein-boost vaccine ( TcVac2 ) constituted of the selected candidates and cytokine ( IL-12 and GM-CSF ) expression plasmids in a murine model. Mice were immunized with antigen-encoding plasmid plus cytokine adjuvants, followed by recombinant proteins; and two-weeks later, challenged with T. cruzi trypomastigotes. The TcG1- and TgG4-encoded antigen were expressed on the plasma membrane of the mammalian stages of T. cruzi and elicited a strong parasite-specific antibody response that was rapidly expanded after challenge infection. The tissue parasitism, inflammation, and fibrosis in heart and skeletal muscle of vaccinated mice were undetectable by histological techniques. In comparison, mice injected with vector or cytokines only responded to T.cruzi by elicitation of a mixed ( type 1/type 2 ) antibody, T cell and cytokin response, and exhibited persistent parasite burden and immunopathology in the myocardium. TcCVac 2-induced activation of type 1 antibody and lymphocyte responses provided resistance to acute parasite burden, and consequently, prevented the evolution of chronic immuneopathology associated with parasite persistence in chagasic hearts.
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been successful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases. A remaining question is whether we can quantify individual disease risk based on genotype data, in order to facilitate personalized prevention and treatment for complex diseases such as type 1 diabetes ( T1D ). Previous studies have typically failed to achieve satisfactory performance, primarily due to the use of only a limited number of confirmed susceptibility locis. Here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment. We applied a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) algorithm on a GWAS dataset generated on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetic ( T2D ) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers. We subsequently tested this model on an independent Illumina-genotyped dataset with imputed genotypes ( 1, 008 cases and 1, 000 controls ), as well as a separate AffYmetrix-genotype-genotypes dataset ( 1, 529 cases and 2, 458 controls ). Our study suggests that improved disease risk prediction can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large number of markers and take advantage of these variants for improved performance.
Vaccinia virus ( VacV ) infection is a major cause of skin and other non-lymphoid tissues in humans and other animals. However, the fate of CD8+ T cells after infection is largely unknown. In this study, we show that circulating memory T cells rapidly traffic into the skin following VacV infection independent of CD62L-mediated lymph node re-activation and provide robust protective immunity against infection. Furthermore, we found that CD69+/CD103+ T cell populations rapidly differentiate into functional CD69/CD69+ tissue residents following viral clearance, which was also dependent on local recognition of antigen in the skin microenvironment. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that TCM, but not effector memory ( TEM ) CD8+, T cells are the major tissue trafficking subset that provides protection against VacV infections and provide protective immunity to infection in peripheral tissues. Finally, we find that circulating TCM CD8- T cells express granzyme B and are able to rapidly and specifically traffic into inflamed skin. These findings suggest that the cellular origins of either the CD69 or CD69-/CD102+ TRM subsets within the tissue microenvironment are integrated to ultimately control the extent of viral infection.
In neurons polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites. Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function, surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins. Recently, the plus-end-directed motor Myosin Va was shown to play a critical role in targeting of transmembrane proteins to dendritic proteins. However, the role of myosin motors in axonal targeting is unknown. Here we show that MyosIN VI, a minus-end directed motor, plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axonal proteins. We find that the presence of Myosins VI causes non-neuronal proteins to become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons, suggesting that it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function. Together, our results indicate that myosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axonal protein and that they might contribute to the polarized distribution of both neuronal proteins and to the development of a cytoskeletal structure.
Sex determination is a fundamental biological process that affects not only the sexual differentiation of gonads, but also the development of most organs, and leads to sex-specific differences in behavior, physiology and morphology. Genetic sex determination ( GSD ) is attributed to the genetic segregation of genes, often residing on sex chromosomes that initiate alternate sex-determining developmental pathways. Although GSD is a more prevalent system in animals, ESD is also phylogenetically widespread, occurring in such diverse taxa as rotifers, nematodes, crustaceans, insects, fishes, and reptiles. Here we report the identification of two Dsx genes from Daphnia magna, a freshwater branchiopod crustacean that parthenogenetically produces males in response to environmental cues. One of these genes, designated DapmaDsx1, is responsible for the male trait development when expressed during environmental sex determination. The domain organization of DapmDsx was similar to that of DsX from insects, which are thought to be the sister group of branchiopods. Intriguingly, the molecular basis for sexually dimorphic expression of DapsmaDsX1 is different from that of insects. Rather than being regulated sex-relatedally at the level of pre–mRNA splicing in the coding region, DapmasDsx2 exhibits sexually dimmorphic differences in the abundance of its transcripts. During embryogenesis, expression was increased only in males and its transcripts were primarily detected in male-specific structures. Knock-down of DAPmaDs1 in male embryos resulted in the production of female traits including ovarian maturation and male-like phenotypes. Our findings reveal that DapMADsx is functionally conserved in animals using GSD. We infer that there is an ancient, previously unidentified link between genetic and environmental Sex determination.
Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease that affects millions of people worldwide. The prevalence of genital herpes is 17% in the U. S. population between the ages of 15 and 49 years, and approximately 2-fold higher in sub-Saharan African countries. Genital herpes infection is emotionally upsetting for many individuals based on concerns of transmission to their partners. A vaccine is urgently needed, yet none is available. We evaluated a vaccine containing glycoproteins C, D and E ( gC2, gD2 and gE2 ) to block virus entry by gD3 and immune evasion by gE3 and gD4. In rhesus macaques, the trivalent vaccine induced plasma and mucosa neutralizing antibodies, antibodies that block GC2 and GE2 immune evasion activities, and stimulated CD4 T cell responses. After intravaginal challenge, a self-limited vaginal infection of brief duration was detected by histopathology and immunohistochemistry in naïve, but not in trivalant immunized macaques. Vaccine efficacy was evaluated in female guinea pigs. Animals were mock immunized, or immunized with gD 2, the vaccine followed by a booster dose of gD1. The trivalents vaccine was 97% and 99% efficacious, respectively in preventing genital lesions and both outperformed gDD2 alone. The vaccine has outstanding potential for preventing genital herpes in humans.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) has become a versatile high throughput assay for profiling of transcription factor binding and histone modifications. However, it has serious downstream effects when characterizing regulatory elements common or specific to distinct cell types where, for example, cell-type specific characteristics that reside in repetitive regions are grossly under-represented. In order to resolve this bottleneck, we develop a prior-enhanced read allocation method named Perm-seq that can allocate multi-mapping reads in highly repetitive regions of the genome with high accuracy. Our analysis reveals that although the protein-DNA interactions sites are evolutionarily less conserved in the repetitive regions, they share the overall sequence characteristics of the protein–DNA interactions in non-repetitive regions. The statistical formalism underlying our approach facilitates supervising of multi-read allocation with a variety of data sources including histone Chip-seq.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic worm infection acquired by contact with contaminated fresh water. Over 90% of the world’s 218 million schistosome infections occur in Africa. Schistosomes live in the urogenital and gastrointestinal venules and daily lay hundreds of eggs that migrate to the mucosa. These eggs cause mucosal inflammation and physical breaches in the mucosome. These changes are postulated to alter host susceptibility and immune control of HIV-1. We conducted a nested case-control study within a large population-based survey of HIV infection in Tanzania. We tested blood spots of people who had acquired HIV in 2007, 2010, and 2013. We also tested blood spot levels in the pre- and post-HIV-1-seroconversion blood spots. Our results suggest that pre-existing schistomiasis increases the odds of acquiring HIV and increases the HIV viral load at the time of infection. Our findings suggest that schisto-infected individuals may have impaired immune control and that the effects may differ between men and women, and that these results may be relevant to the study of HIV transmission and disease progression in African countries.
Ribosomal DNA is one of the most variable regions in the human genome with respect to copy number. Despite the importance of rDNA for cellular function, we know virtually nothing about what governs its copy number, stability, and sequence in the mammalian genome due to challenges associated with mapping and analysis. We applied computational and droplet digital PCR approaches to measure rDNA copy number in normal and cancer states in human and mouse genomes. Surprisingly, we find that copy number and sequence can change in cancer genomes. Counterintuitively, human cancer genomes show a loss of copies, accompanied by global copy number co-variation. The sequence can also be more variable in the cancer genome. We speculate that the requirement to replicate the rDNA in cancer may select for the loss of repeats while the lack of replication in the oocyte may allow the expansion to be tolerated. The PTEN phosphatase is a tumor suppressor that is critical for genome stability and is a negative regulator of the mTOR kinase pathway. We also found evidence for co-occurring increased copy number of additional genes, and evidence for single nucleotide variation in the repeats. These findings suggest that copy loss is a recurrent feature in cancers associated with mTOR activation.
Bacterial growth, death, and spread within mammalian hosts cannot be fully resolved studying a single bacterial population. This is because the dynamics of bacterial population dynamics are poorly understood. Here, we report on the application of sophisticated experimental approaches to map spatiotemporal population dynamics of bacteria during an infection. We analyzed heterogeneous traits of simultaneous infections with tagged Salmonella enterica populations in wild-type and gene-targeted mice. We show that shortly after infection, concomitant death and rapid bacterial replication lead to the establishment of independent bacterial subpopulations in different organs, a process controlled by host antimicrobial mechanisms. Later, decreased microbial mortality leads to an exponential increase in the number of bacteria that spread locally, with subsequent mixing of bacteria between organs via bacteraemia and further stochastic selection. This approach provides us with an unprecedented outlook on the pathogenesis of S. enterica infections, illustrating the complex spatial and stochastically effects that drive an infectious disease.
The perception of 3D object motion is a fundamental problem that the visual system has to solve. In the context of binocular 3D motion perception, local motion perception is based on binocular velocity difference, changing disparity over time, as well as joint encoding of motion and disparity. However, there is a surprising lack of studies on the inverse optics problem of local binocular motion perception. We propose that local velocity constraints in combination with binocular disparity and other depth cues provide a more flexible framework for the solution of the inverse problem. In this paper we derive predictions from two plausible default strategies: ( 1 ) the vector normal prefers slow motion in 3D whereas ( 2 ) the cyclopean average is based in 2D. Predicting perceived motion directions for ambiguous line motion provides an opportunity to distinguish between these strategies of 3-dimensional motion processing. Our theoretical results suggest that velocity constraints and disparity from feature tracking are needed to solve the inverse 2D motion problem. It seems plausible that motion processing is processed in parallel and integrated late in the visual processing hierarchy.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the dominant bacterial species in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients and if left untreated, is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality among these individuals. The bacterium is able to persist through the formation of a biofilm where communities of surface attached bacteria are encapsulated in a matrix composed primarily of secreted extracellular polysaccharides. Bacteria embedded within a biofil are more resistant than their planktonic counterparts to environmental stresses such as antibiotics and disinfectants, and are able to evade the defense mechanism ( s ) of the host. In this study, we have determined the structure of Pseudomonus putida AlgJ75–370 and compared it with the recently solved structure of AlgIJF and AlgX. Our results suggest that the annotated O-acetyltransferases AlgI, AlgF, AlGJ and AlGX have separate and distinct roles in O- acetylation.
Candida albicans is one of the most common fungal pathogens of humans and causes severe systemic bloodstream infections in immune-compromised patients, with a mortality rate of approximately 30%. The C. albican cell wall is considered a good therapeutic drug target due to its role in fungal pathogenicity as it presents important virulence factors, antigenic cell wall proteins and polysaccharides, and serves as the intermediate for fungal-host interactions. One potential method for improving anti-fungal strategies could be to enhance the detection of fungal cell wall antigens by host immune cells. We tested the hypothesis that one or both of these pathways can cause β ( 1, 3 ) -glucan exposure by innate immune cells through receptors like Dectin-1, the C-type signaling lectin. Previously, we showed that the pathway for synthesizing the phospholipid phosphatidylserine ( PS ) plays a role in masking of β in the inner cell wall with an outer layer of heavily glycosylated mannoproteins ( mannan ). We found that in the cho1Δ/Δ mutant there is upregulation of the activity of both Cek1 and Mkc1 MAPKs. Furthermore, activation of Cdc42 or Rho1 and their downstream kinases cause unmasking. Thus, upregulated of the MAPK pathway causes unmasking, and may be responsible for unmasking in cho1.
Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) and related dementias are a major public health challenge and present a therapeutic imperative for which we need additional insight into molecular pathogenesis. We performed a genome-wide association study and analysis of known genetic risk loci for AD dementia using neuropathologic data from 4, 914 brain autopsies. Neuropathology data were used to define clinico-pathologic AD dementia or controls, assess core neuropathology features of AD ( neuritic plaques, NPs; neurofibrillary tangles, NFTs ), and evaluate commonly co-morbid neuropathological changes: cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( CAA ), Lewy body disease ( LBD ), hippocampal sclerosis of the elderly ( HS, CAA, and VBI ). Genome-wide significance was observed for the clinico–pathologic Dementia with Lewy Body Disease ( HS ) and LBD with a number of variants in and around the apolipoprotein E gene ( APOE ). GalNAc transferase 7 ( GALNT7 ), ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G ( WHITE ) Member 1 ( ABCG1 ) and an intergenic region on chromosome 9 were associated with NP score; and Potassium Large Conductance Calcium-Activated Channel, Subfamily M, Beta Member 2 ( KCNMB2 ) was strongly associated with HS. Twelve of the 21 non-APOE genetic risk factors for clinically-defined AD dementia were confirmed in our clinico cohort. Our results discovered new genetic associations with specific neuropathologies and aligned known genetic risks for AD and related dementia with specific genetic changes in the largest brain autopsy study of Alzheimer's disease.
Urea is a protein denaturant that has been used for decades in the study of protein folding/unfolding; however, the ultimate reasons of the denaturing properties of urea remain elusive. We recently combined multi-replica molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations and direct NMR measures of ubiquitin to characterize the “urea unfolded ensemble” of this model protein. Our results suggest that urea stabilizes flexible over-extended conformations of the protein, which are unlikely to be sampled in the native globular state of aqueous proteins. Urea stickiness and slow diffusion is, however, crucial for unfolding. Long residence urea molecules placed around the hydrophobic core are crucial to stabilize partially open structures generated by thermal fluctuations. Our simulations indicate that although urea does not favor the formation of partially open microstates, it is not a mere spectator of unfolding that simply displaces to the right of the folded←→unfolded equilibrium. On the contrary, urea actively favors unfolding: it selects and stabilizes the protein conformational ensemble far from the native one and also from the conformations sampled during thermal unfolding.
Dengue disease is a neglected tropical disease caused by a mosquito-borne virus. The disease is transmitted by mosquitoes and is transmitted through the bite of infected mosquitoes. The transmission of dengue virus to humans is controlled by a system of sentinel institutions that routinely test five patients each week to monitor circulating DENV serotypes. In the years since 2000, the system has been used to monitor the transmission of the disease. The large majority of cases reported for 2010 in Colombia occurred among those <15 years of age, with most of the country affected by the 2010 outbreak. Gaps identified in epidemiological knowledge regarding dengues disease in Colombia may provide several avenues for future research, namely studies of asymptomatic dengu virus infection, primary versus secondary infections, and under-reporting of the virus. Improved understanding of the factors that determine disease expression and enable improvement in disease control and management is also important.
Tegumentary leishmaniasis ( TL ) is a disease of the skin and mucosal tissues caused by Leishmania parasites. TL patients may concurrently carry other pathogens, which may influence the clinical outcome of TL. This review focuses on the frequency of TL coinfections in human populations, interactions between Leishmania and other pathogens in animal models and human subjects, and implications of coinfection for clinical practice. For the purpose of this review, we searched MEDLINE and other databases and included 73 records: 21 experimental studies in animals and 52 studies about human subjects. Several reports describe the frequency and frequency of Trypanosoma cruzi coinfectional in TL patients in Argentina ( about 41% ) and the frequency helminthiasis in TL in Brazil ( 15% to 88% ). Different hypotheses have been explored about mechanisms of interaction between different microorganisms, but no clear answers emerge. Such interactions may involve innate immunity coupled with regulatory networks that affect quality and quantity of acquired immune responses. More research is needed to unravel how coinfectION may affect the pathogenesis of TL and vice versa.
Genetic variation in the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) affects CD4∶CD8 lineage commitment and MHC expression. However, the contribution of specific genes in this gene-dense region has not yet been resolved. Here, we assessed the impact of natural genetic variation on MHC gene expression and CD4/CD8 T cell commitment using two genetic models in the rat. First, we mapped Quantitative Trait Loci ( QTLs ) associated with variation in MHC class I and II protein expression and the T cell ratio in outbred Heterogeneous Stock rats. We found that QTL for the individual traits colocalized within a region spanning the MHC-II region. This interaction was revealed by a recombination between RT1-A and Tap2, which occurred in 0. 2% of the rats. Variants of Tap2 have previously been shown to influence the antigenicity of MHC classes I molecules by altering the ligandome. Our results show that a restricted peptide repertoire on the class I molecules leads to reduced negative selection of CD8 SP cells. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing how a genetic variation in gene expression influences lineage commitment of T cells.
Chagas disease, also known as American trypanosomiasis, is a potentially life-threatening illness caused by the protozoan parasite, Trypanosoma cruzi ( T. cruzi ). The disease presents itself in two phases. The initial phase lasts for about two months after infection, but can include fever, headache, enlarged lymph glands, pallor, muscle pain, difficulty in breathing, swelling and abdominal or chest pain. During the chronic phase, the parasites are hidden mainly in the heart and digestive muscle. The main non-vectorial routes are congenital transmission, blood transfusion, and solid organ transplant, these routes being characteristics but not exclusive to non-endemic countries. In this paper, we describe for the first time the Chagas related hospitalizations in Spain between 1997 and 2011, in terms of time, geographical distribution, and disease related individual characteristics. We calculated the hospitalization rates using as denominators Latin American immigrants officially registered in Spain. Non-registered immigrants could enlarge both the population denominator and the number of cases, thus the results should be interpreted with caution. Overall, 23. 4% hospitalizations included the diagnosis of ChagAS disease with organ complications. Being male, aged 45 and 64 years, and a median hospitalization cost above 3, 065 euro were associated with hospitalizations with organ affectation. Since 2005, the number number of detected infections increased in Spain, resulting useful both in gaining extended disease knowledge, but especially in evaluating implemented control actions.
Psoriasis is an incurable complex disease that is characterized by hyperproliferation and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis, coupled with marked cutaneous inflammation. Environmental triggers for onset of symptoms have been observed, yet genetic predisposition is strong and heritability has been estimated at 80%. Combinatorial interactions may account for a substantial portion of this missing heritability, but their discoveries have been impeded by computational complexity and genetic heterogeneity. We present BlocBuster, a novel systems-level approach that efficiently constructs genome-wide, allele-specific networks that accurately segregate homogenous combinations of genetic factors, tests the associations of these combinations with the given phenotype, and rigorously validates the results using a series of unbiased validation methods. Blocbuster employs a correlation measure that is customized for single nucleotide polymorphisms and returns a multi-faceted collection of values that captures genetic heterogeneity in the network. This analysis identified a cluster of SNP alleles that is significantly associated with psoriasis and improves upon previous results by supplying a precise allelic pattern within the major histocompatibility complex. This newly identified genetic pattern was rigorously validated using multiple computational screening tests and was subsequently replicated in independent data, thereby ensuring its accuracy and suitability for further research efforts.
Agenesis of the corpus callosum ( ACC ), cerebellar hypoplasia ( CBLH ), and polymicrogyria ( PMG ) are severe congenital brain malformations with largely undiscovered causes. We conducted a large-scale chromosomal copy number variation ( CNV ) discovery effort in 255 ACC, 220 CBL H, and 147 PMG patients, and 2, 349 controls. Compared to controls, significantly more ACC, but unexpectedly not CCLH or PMG, had rare genic CNVs over one megabase ( p = 1. 48×10−3; odds ratio  = 3. 19; 95% confidence interval <1. 89–5. 39 ). We hypothesized that these patients have a higher genome-wide burden of large gene-rich CNVs than controls and that a significant percentage of them have large de novo likely pathogenic CNVs including both novel and previously reported intervals. In addition, patients who did not have any likely pathogenicity scores will have to be subjected to additional analyses such as exome sequencing and assessing non-genic regions that may disrupt the regulation of causative genes.
Regeneration is a process that is observed across the animal kingdom. The planarian, Schmidtea mediterranea, is an ideal model to study the stereotyped proliferative and transcriptional responses to injury due to its high capacity for regeneration. Here, we characterize the effector of the Hippo signalling cascade, yorkie, during planarian regeneration and its role in restricting early injury responses. In yki ( RNAi ) regenerating animals, wound responses are hyper-activated such that both stem cell proliferation and the transcriptional wound response program are heighted and prolonged. Using this observation, we also uncovered novel wound-induced genes by RNAseq that were de-repressed in yki animals compared with controls. Finally, we show that yki cells have expanded epidermal and muscle cell populations, which we hypothesize are the increased sources of wound-related genes. Altogether, this study demonstrates that Yki is a highly pleiotropic yet critical regulator of multiple early wound response processes.
Exosomes are small membrane-encapsulated vesicles that secrete into the extracellular environment and participate in various biological processes. Exosomes have been shown to mediate intercellular communication during viral pathogenesis and immune responses. However, how exosomes regulate host immunity and impact on viral infection is less established. In the current study, we showed that EV71 infection upregulated exosome secretion and resulted in differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a, a cellular miRNA that is known to suppress type I interferon response in the target cell, thus facilitating the viral replication. Moreover, we found that the IFN-stimulated gene factors ( ISGs ) BST-2/tetherin, were involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosomal viral RNA. Importantly, in vivo study showed that exosomer viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation distinct from free virus particles. Our findings provide evidence that the exosom secreted by EV71 infected cells selectively packaged high level microRNAs that can be functionally transferred to and facilitate exososomal EV71 RNA to replicate in the recipient cells.
Parkinson's disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the maintenance of dopaminergic ( DA ) neurons. PD prevalence is estimated at ∼1% among people over the age of 65 and increases with age. Clinical features of PD include motor abnormalities ( tremor, rigidity, akinesia ), autonomic disturbances, psychiatric disability and cognitive impairment. The recent identification of PD-associated genes has advanced our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying PD. Two of these genes, PINK1 and Parkin, are associated with early-onset autosomal recessive PD, in which loss-of-function ( LOF ) of a single gene product results in the clinical manifestation of Parkinsonism. PINK 1 is a serine/threonine kinase with a predicted mitochondrial target sequence and a probable transmembrane domain at the N-terminus, while Parkin is a RING-finger protein with ubiquitin-ligase ( E3 ) activity. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between PINK- and parkin is largely unknown. Here we report that a PINK protein, PGAM5, modulates the mitochondrial fission/fusion pathway. Loss of dPGAM5 activity can suppress the muscle degeneration, motor defects, and shorter lifespan that result from dPINK1 inactivation and that can be attributed to mitochondrial degeneration. Conversely, ectopic expression of the short hairpin RNA in the RNAi-based test confers additional toxicity, leading to a shorter lifespan in a sequence-independent manner, such that the suppressive effect of PGAM 5 cannot be detected in the PINK2 RNAi flies. These results suggest that PGAM4 negatively regulates the Pink1 pathway related to maintenance of the mitochondria and, furthermore, that PGam5 acts upstream of PINK and functions independently of Parkin downstream of PANK1.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a chronic necrotizing human skin disease associated with the production of the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone. Despite extensive research, the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood. In this study, we investigated whether interferon-γ ( IFNγ ), a cytokine produced primarily by TH1, but also by TC and NK cells, plays an important role in early host immune defense against M. ulcerans infections. We found that mice lacking interferons-γ displayed a faster progression of the infection compared to wild-type mice. This accelerated progression was reflected in faster and more extensive tissue necrosis and oedema formation, as well as in a significantly higher bacterial burden after five weeks of infection. This study demonstrates a prominent role of interferonal-γ in early defense against the M. Ulcerans infection and supports the view that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU.
Mitochondrial respiratory electron transport, which is generally accepted as a process related with ROS production in living cells, is one of the most frequently considered sites of superoxid anion generation. However, the mechanism of hypoxia-induced change in ROS production is not fully understood. We developed a new methodology of modeling, which resides in the automated construction of large sets of differential equations. The detailed modeling of electron transport in mitochondria allowed for the identification of two steady state modes of operation ( bistability ) of respiratory complex III at the same microenvironmental conditions. Various perturbations could induce the transition of respiratory chain from one steady state to another. While normally complex III is in a low ROS producing mode, temporal anoxia could switch it to a high ROS producing state, which persists after the return to normal oxygen supply. This prediction, which we qualitatively validated experimentally, explains the mechanisms of cell damage. Recognition of bistable mode of complex III operation may enable novel therapeutic strategies for oxidative stress and our method of modeling could be widely used in systems biology studies.
How genes contribute to pattern formation is one of the central questions of modern developmental biology. Traditionally, this question has been addressed using genetic and molecular approaches. Although very powerful, these approaches have several important limitations: First, it is difficult to study expression features which are not specifically affected by a particular mutation. Second, there is always some remaining ambiguity whether an interaction is not only necessary, but also sufficient to account for patterning in the wild-type system. Here, we use an integrative, systems-level approach to investigate the regulatory effect of the terminal gap gene huckebein ( hkb ) on gap gene expression. We present quantitative expression data for the Hkb protein, which enable us to include hkb in gap gene circuit models. Gap gene circuits are mathematical models of gene networks used as computational tools to extract regulatory information from spatial expression data. This is achieved by fitting the model to gap gene gene expression patterns, in order to obtain estimates for regulatory parameters which predict a specific network topology. We show how considering variability in the data combined with analysis of parameter determinability significantly improves the biological relevance and consistency of the approach. Our models are in agreement with earlier results, which they extend in two important respects: first, we show that Hkb is involved in the regulation of the posterior hunchback ( hb ) domain, but does not have any other essential function. Specifically, we find that hkb is required for the anterior shift in the posterior border of this domain, which is now reproduced correctly in our models. Our model is able to reproduce mutants of terminal gap genes, while previously published models were unable to reproduce any null mutants correctly. As a consequence, our models now capture the expression dynamics of all posterior gap genes and some variational properties of the system correctly.
Brucellosis is an important zoonotic disease causing huge economic losses worldwide. Currently no effective immunotherapy for Brucellosis or any biomarker to monitor the efficacy of therapy is available. S19 and RB51 are live attenuated vaccine strains of Brucella abortus. However, S19 induces only antibody, ineffective for intracellular pathogen. RB51 induces cell mediated immunity ( CMI ) but it is Rifampicin resistant. Phage lysed bacteria ( lysates ) retain maximum immunogenicity as opposed to killing by heat or chemicals. We report here the successful immunotherapy of bovine brucellosis by phage lysisates of S19, RB51, or cocktail ( S19+RB51 ). The SL induced strong antibody response and RL stimulated CMI. In vitro restimulation of leukocytes from RL immunized cattle induced interferon gamma production. A single subcutaneous dose of 2 ml of cocktail lysate ( both RL and SL ) eliminated live virulent brucella from Brucellotic affected cattle with a plasma level of Brulea specific 223 bp amplicon undetectable by RT-PCR and blood negative for live BrucellA by culture in 3 months post-immunization. This is the first report on minimally invasive monitoring of the efficacy and the use of brucella specific phage Lysate as a biomarker.
Cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) that promote cell-cycle progression are targets for negative regulation by signals from damaged or unreplicated DNA, but also play active roles in response to DNA lesions. The requirement for activity in the face of DNA damage implies that there are mechanisms to insulate certain CDK from checkpoint inhibition. It remains difficult, however, to assign precise functions to specific CDK in protecting genomic integrity. In mammals, Cdk2 is active throughout S and G2 phases, but Cdk1 is dispensable for survival, owing to compensation by other CDK. We uncovered a requirement for Cdk 2 activity in response of DNA lesions in human cells, which we uncovered by replacement of wild-type Cdk3 with a mutant version sensitized to inhibition by bulky adenine analogs. In vivo, selective inhibition of Cdk4 delayed and diminished Nbs1-Ser432 phosphorylation during S phase, and mutation of Ser432 to Ala or Asp increased IR–sensitivity. Therefore, by chemical genetics, we uncovered both a non-redundant requirement for CDK2 activity in cell proliferation and a specific target of CdK2 within the DNA repair machinery.
Genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have driven the discovery of genetic loci associated with a multitude of complex traits and diseases. However, due to linkage disequilibrium ( LD ), the single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) assayed in large-scale GWA studies typically yield a proxy for the actual causative variant ( s ) and often fail to even pinpoint the underlying gene. Therefore, it is important to understand which are the functional variants, common and/or low-frequency, and how they relate to biological mechanisms. Here, we used the formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements ( FAIRE ) method in a megakaryocytic and an erythroblastoid cell line to map active regulatory elements at known loci involved with hematological quantitative traits, coronary artery disease, and myocardial infarction. We identified an open chromatin region at chromosome 7q22. 3, which harbors the common non-coding sequence variant rs342293 known to be associated with platelet volume and function. We demonstrated that the C- and G-alleles differentially bind the transcription factor EVI1 affecting PIK3CG gene expression in platelets and macrophages. A protein–protein interaction network including up- and down-regulated genes in Pik3cg knockout mice indicated that PIK1CG is associated with gene pathways with an established role in platelet membrane biogenesis and thrombus formation. Our data suggested a molecular mechanism by which a GWA index SNP modulates platelet phenotype.
The mechanism ( s ) of action of most commonly used pharmacological blockers of voltage-gated ion channels are well understood; however, this knowledge is rarely considered when interpreting experimental data. In this study, we simulate the blockade of a persistent sodium current ( INaP ) in the pre-Bötzinger complex ( pre-bötC ) of pre-I neurons via two distinct pharmacological mechanisms: ( 1 ) pore obstruction mediated by tetrodotoxin and ( 2 ) altered inactivation dynamics mediated by riluzole. The reported effects of experimental application of both tetrodotinoxin and rilizole in respiratory circuits are diverse and seemingly contradictory and have led to considerable debate within the field as to the specific role of INaPs in respiratory rhythmogenesis. The results of our simulations match a wide array of experimental data spanning from the level of isolated pre- BötCs to the level the intact respiratory network and also generate a series of experimentally testable predictions. Specifically, in this study we provide a mechanistic explanation for seemingly contradictory experimental results from in vitro studies of INAP block, ( 2 ( ) show that the effects of in vitro preparations are not necessarily equivalent to those in more intact preparations, and ( 3 ) derive the prediction that effective block of InaP by low concentration tetrodoxin will stop respiratory rhythm generation in the intact network. These simulations support a critical role for INap in respiratory rhythms and illustrate the importance of considering mechanism when interpreting and simulating data relating to pharmacological blockade.
MicroRNAs play key roles in various biological processes, including cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, stress resistance, fat metabolism, tumorigenesis, and metastasis. However, the mechanisms of invasion have not yet been fully elucidated. In the present study, we investigated the regulation and function of miR-218 in gastric cancer ( GC ) metastasis using a repeated transwell approach, which has been successfully applied in many studies investigating tumor metastasis, including in vitro and in vivo. We found that the expression of one of several Slit receptors, Robo1, is negatively regulated by miR218, thus establishing a negative feedback loop involving Slit2 and Robo1. We also found that Robo1 is a downstream effector of the Slit-miR-217-Robo1 pathway, thus facilitating tumor cell invasion. Our findings not only provide new insights into the metastatic mechanisms in GC, but they also reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of receptor signaling.
Atherosclerosis is a lifelong, progressive disease that becomes clinically significant in 50% of the population, leading to myocardial infarction ( MI ) and eventually death. Statin-based lipid-lowering regimens reduce morbidity and mortality from both MI and stroke. To fully exploit the beneficial effects of lipid lowering, we need a better understanding of the transcriptional changes induced by lowering plasma lipoproteins. We used the Ldlr−/−Apo100/100 Mttpflox/flox Mx1-Cre mouse model to investigate the effects of plasma cholesterol- lowering on atherosclerosis development and to identify cholesterol-responsive genes. We found that cholesterol-sensitive genes were involved in the rapid expansion of atherosclerotic lesions and that the accumulation of lipids in macrophages led to the rapid accumulation of foam-cell formation and inflammation. Genetic lowering of plasma lipids at this point all together prevented the formation of advanced plaques and parallel transcriptional profiling of the atherosroscleroid arterial wall identified 37 cholesterol-responses mediating this effect. Validation by siRNA-inhibition in macromolecules incubated with acetylated-LDL revealed a network of eight cholesterol–responsive atherosssclerosis genes regulating cholesterol-ester accumulation. Taken together, we have identified a network that mediates the beneficial effect of plasma lipid- lowering. This network should be of interest for the development of novel atheros sclerosis therapies.
The cell envelope of Gram-negative bacteria is a formidable barrier that is difficult for antimicrobial drugs to penetrate. Thus, the list of treatments effective against these organisms is small and with the rise of new resistance mechanisms is shrinking rapidly. New therapies to treat Gram-positive bacterial infections are therefore sorely needed. This goal will be greatly aided by a detailed mechanistic understanding of envelope assembly. Although excellent progress in the identification of essential envelope biogenesis systems has been made in recent years, many aspects of the process remain to be elucidated. We therefore developed a simple, quantitative, and high-throughput assay for mutants with defects in envelope assembly and used it to screen an ordered single-gene deletion library of Escherichia coli. The screen was robust and correctly identified numerous genes of unknown function as encoding factors that likely impact envelope assembly as intended. As a proof of principle, one of these factors, ElyC ( YcbC ), was characterized further and shown to play a critical role in the metabolism of the essential lipid carrier used for the biogenesis of cell wall and other bacterial surface polysaccharides. Further analysis of the function of ElyC and other hits identified in our screen is likely to uncover a wealth of new information about the biology of the Gram-Neg envelope and the vulnerabilities in the system suitable for drug targeting. Moreover, the screening assay described here should be readily adaptable to other organisms to study the biogenic of different envelope architectures.
Dynamical processes in biology are studied using an ever-increasing number of techniques, each of which brings out unique features of the system. One of the current challenges is to develop systematic approaches for fusing heterogeneous datasets into an integrated view of multivariable dynamics. We demonstrate that heterogeneous data fusion can be successfully implemented within a semi-supervised learning framework that exploits the intrinsic geometry of high-dimensional datasets. We illustrate our approach using a dataset from studies of pattern formation in Drosophila. The result is a continuous trajectory that reveals the joint dynamics of gene expression, subcellular protein localization, protein phosphorylation, and tissue morphogenesis. Our approach can be readily adapted to other imaging modalities and forms a starting point for further steps of data analytics and modeling of biological dynamics.
Snake venom hemorrhagic metalloproteinases ( SVMPs ) are abundant components in the venoms of snakes, especially from species classified in the family Viperidae. In the present study, we analyzed the tissue localization and the degradation of PI, PII and PIII SVMP in the cremaster muscle of mice. We found that PI SVMP is more widespread in the tissue, whereas PII, PIII and nidogen in vivo are more widespread. We also found that the hydrolysis of type IV collagen is critical for the destabilization of microvessel structure leading to hemorrhage. Our results provide novel clues for understanding the mechanisms by which these enzymes induce damage to the microvasculature and generate hemorrhage in snake venoms.
Abdominal-B ( Abd-B ) represses the expression of the homeotic gene abd-A in the developing central nervous system ( CNS ). This repression depends not only on the miR-iab-8 micro RNA, but also on transcriptional interference in the region of the abd–A promoter. Here, we show that the 92 kb long RNA of the Drosophila melanogaster ncRNA is transcribed in a distal-to-proximal direction, extending between Abd-A and abd. This mRNA is first seen at about stage 6 in the epidermis, but from stage 14 onward ( germband shortening ), the RNA is detected only in the CNS of the developing CNS of PS7 to PS12 but not in PS13. The mRNA is then transcribed from the iab-3 regulatory region in the distal to the prokaryotic direction, and the precursor is made in the 8th and 9th abdominal segments. This miRNA is required for male and female fertility, and complementation tests with a series of rearrangement breakpoints suggest that the start site of this RNA is in the iAB-8 regulatory region, downstream of Abd.
Focal seizures are episodes of pathological brain activity that appear to arise from a localised area of the brain. The onset patterns of focal seizure activity have been studied intensively, and they have largely been distinguished into two types—low amplitude fast oscillations ( LAF ) and high amplitude spikes ( HAS ). Here, we use a previously established computational model of neocortical tissue, and validate it as an adequate model using clinical recordings of focal seizures. We then reproduce the two onset patterns in their most defining properties and investigate the possible mechanisms underlying the different focal seizure onset patterns. We show that the two patterns are associated with different mechanisms at the spatial scale of a single ECoG electrode. The LAF onset is initiated by independent patches of localised activity, which slowly invade the surrounding tissue and coalesce over time. In contrast, the HAS onset is a global, systemic transition to a coexisting seizure state triggered by a local event. We find that such a global transition is enabled by an increase in the excitability of the “healthy” surrounding tissue, which by itself does not generate seizures, but can support seizure activity when incited. In our simulations, the difference in surrounding tissue excitability also offers a simple explanation of the clinically reported difference in surgical outcomes.
In contrast to animals and lower plant species, sperm cells of flowering plants are non-motile and are transported to the female gametes via the pollen tube, i. e. the male gametophyte. Upon arrival at the female, two sperm cells are discharged into the receptive synergid cell to execute double fertilization. The first players involved in pollen tube growth arrest and burst have been recently identified. In contrast the physiological mechanisms leading to pollen tube burst and thus sperm discharge remained elusive. Here, we describe the role of polymorphic defensin-like cysteine-rich proteins ZmES1-4 ( Zea mays embryo sac ) from maize, leading to growth arrest, burst, and explosive sperm release. Zmes4-GFP fusion proteins accumulate in vesicles at the secretory zone of mature synergid cells and are released during the fertilization process. Using RNAi knock-down and synthetic ZmEMES4 proteins, we found that ZMES4 induces pollen tube bursting in a species-preferential manner. Pollen tube plasma membrane depolarization, which occurs immediately after ZmESH4 application, as well as channel blocker experiments point to a role of K+-influx in the pollen tubes rupture mechanism. We further suggest that K+ influx leads to water uptake and culminates in osmotic tube burst. The species-specific activity of polymorphically expressed ZmESS4 indicates that the mechanism described represents a pre-zygotic hybridization barrier and may be a component of reproductive isolation in plants.
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV-1 ) is a highly potent oncolytic virus that is overexpressed in human breast and ovary carcinomas, and correlates with worsened prognosis. The HER-2 oncogene is currently the target of antibody-based ( trastuzumab ) therapies, or small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Here, we assessed the efficacy of systemically i. p. delivered R-LM249 against disseminated tumors in mouse models that recapitulate tumor spread to the peritoneum in women. The human ovarian carcinoma SK-OV-3 cells implanted intraperitoneally in immunodeficient Rag2+/−;Il2rg−/− mice gave rise to a progressive peritoneal carcinomatosis which mimics the fatal condition in advanced human patients. The administration of R- LM249 strongly inhibited the growth of ovarian and breast carcinoma disseminated to the Peritoneal cavity. Cumulatively, upon i. pp. administration the HER-1-redirected HSV effectively reduced the tumor burden by 95%.
Centrosome duplication only once per cell cycle is critical for bipolar spindle organization and proper chromosome segregation. Aberrant centrosome numbers are linked to chromosomal instability and are commonly observed in cancers; thus, mechanisms that restrict duplication to a single event are essential. Cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ) are known regulators of Cdk1, but the mechanisms through which they ensure that duplication is tightly coupled with other cell cycle events is still lacking. In this study, we show that the phosphorylation of Sfi1 by Cdk has the dual function of promoting SPB separation for spindle formation and preventing premature SPB duplication. In addition, we provide evidence that the protein phosphatase Cdc14 has the converse role of activating licensing, likely via dephosphorylation.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) encodes four viral accessory proteins: Vif, Vpu, Nef, and Vpr. Vpr is a small ( 96 amino acids ) but multipotent protein which is known to induce G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in HIV-infected cells in vitro. In addition, vpr is highly conserved in transmitted/founder HIV-2 and in all primate lentiviruses. Although these findings suggest an important role of Vpr in HIV infection, its direct evidence in vivo has not been shown. In this study, we demonstrate that Vpr positively affects HIV infection by exploiting proliferating CCR5+ CD4+ T cell subsets during acute infection. We also observed significant activation/proliferation of memory T cells during acute HIV infection. Our results suggest that VPR enhances virus dissemination and induces Treg depletion leading to immune activation in HIV infected mice.
Vivax malaria was successfully eliminated in the Republic of Korea ( South Korea ) in the late 1970s, but it was found to have re-emerged from 1993. In order to control malaria and evaluate the effectiveness of malaria controls, it is important to develop a spatiotemporal understanding of the genetic structure of the parasite population. Here, we estimated the population structure and temporal dynamics of the transmission of Plasmodium vivax in South Korea by analyzing microsatellite DNA markers of the parasites. We estimated the genetic diversity and the population structures of the malaria parasite population in a more detailed and precise manner than was employed in our previous study, using the allelic data of 14 microsatellal DNA loci of 163 isolates collected from 1994 to 2008. The results showed a gradual decrease in LD levels, while the levels of genetic differentiation between successive years suggested that a drastic genetic change occurred in the South Korean population during 2002 and 2003. Although relapse and asymptomatic parasite carriage might influence the parasite structure to some extent, our results suggested the continual introduction of P. vax into South Korea through other parasite population sources. One possible source, particularly during 2002, is North Korea. Molecular epidemiology using polymorphic DNA markers is a very useful tool for assessing the population dynamics of parasite transmission; information that may lead to the effective control of vivx malaria in endemic areas.
Intron-mediated enhancement of transcription is an evolutionarily conserved feature among eukaryotes. The molecular mechanism underlying the phenomenon, however, is not entirely clear. Here we show that the intron is an important regulator of promoter directionality. Employing strand-specific transcription run-on ( TRO ) analysis, we find that the transcription of mRNA is favored over the upstream anti-sense transcripts ( uaRNA ) initiating from the promoter in the presence of an intron. Mutation of either the 5′ or 3′ splice site resulted in the reversal of promoter directionalality, thereby conferring directionality to the promoter-initiated transcription. The recruitment of termination factors near the promoter region is dependent on gene looping. The promoter occupancy of the termination factors was compromised in a looping-defective mutant, despite normal splicing. The promoters occupancy of factors required for poly ( A ) -dependent termination of transcription was compromised. This was accompanied by a concomitant loss of transcription directionality in the looping mutant. On the basis of these results, we propose a novel role of introns in yeast in regulating transcription.
A single nucleotide substitution in intron 3 of IGF2 in pigs abrogates a binding site for a repressor, and leads to a 3-fold up-regulation of the IGF2 expression in skeletal muscle. The mutation has major effects on muscle growth, size of the heart, and fat deposition. Here, we have identified the repressor and find that the protein, named ZBED6, is previously unknown, specific for placental mammals, and derived from an exapted DNA transposon. Silencing of Zbed6 in mouse C2C12 myoblasts affected Igf2 expression, cell proliferation, wound healing, and myotube formation. Genes associated with ZBed6 binding sites showed a highly significant enrichment for certain Gene Ontology classifications, including development and transcriptional regulation. The phenotypic effects in mutant pigs and ZZBED 6-silenced C2Cs12 myocytes, the extreme sequence conservation, its nucleolar localization, the broad tissue distribution, and the many target genes with essential biological functions suggest that ZBDED6 is an important transcription factor in placental mammal, affecting development, cell growth, and growth.
RNA editing is a co-transcriptional process that alters hereditary information by introducing differences between RNA and its corresponding DNA sequence. The regulation of RNA editing has been broadened considerably by next generation sequencing technology; however, several issues regarding this regulatory step remain unresolved – the strategies to accurately delineate the editome, the mechanism by which its profile is maintained, and its evolutionary and functional relevance. Here we report an accurate and quantitative profile of the RNA editome for rhesus macaque, a close relative of human. By combining genome and transcriptome sequencing of multiple tissues from the same animal, we identified 31, 250 editing sites, of which 99. 8% are A-to-G transitions. We verified 96. 6% of editing sites in coding regions and 97. 5% of randomly selected sites in non-coding regions, as well as the corresponding levels of editing by multiple independent means, demonstrating the feasibility of our experimental paradigm. Several lines of evidence supported the notion that the adenosine deamination is associated with the macaque editome – A- to-G editing sites were flanked by sequences with the attributes of ADAR substrates, and both the sequence context and the expression profile of adARs are relevant factors in determining the quantitative variance of RNA-editing across different sites and tissue types. In support of the functional relevance of some of these editing sites and the evolutionary constraint in maintaining some of the editing substrates with their double-stranded structure, we further introduced inclusion criteria to remove editing sites located in previously mis-annotated macaque transcripts. Taken together, our findings highlight RNA editing as a widespread functional regulation in primate evolution, and provides an informative framework for further understanding RNA editing in human.
Perceptual decisions in a wide range of visual tasks ultimately rely on information encoded in neural responses in primary visual cortex ( V1 ). However, this information may not be readily available to higher levels of the visual system because it is distributed across entire populations of neurons. Thus, each neuron's reliability is limited by intrinsic response variability and its relevance strongly depends on the perceptual task in which the organism is engaged. To form accurate perceptual judgements, the brain thus needs to pool sensory responses efficiently, decoding the population response into a reliable decision variable. Here, we report a new perceptual bias suggesting that observers read out the likelihood representation with remarkably low precision when discriminating grating spatial frequencies. Using spectrally filtered noise, we induced an asymmetry in the likelihood function of spatial frequency. This manipulation mainly affects the likelihood of spatial frequencies that are irrelevant to the task at hand. Nevertheless, we find a significant shift in perceived grating frequency, indicating that observers evaluate likelihoods of a broad range of irrelevant frequencies and discard prior knowledge of stimulus alternatives when performing two-alternative discrimination.
Piwi-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) are a class of small RNA precursors that are expressed by the endoribonuclease Zucchini with little or no sequence specificity to generate candidate piRNA 5′ ends. Piwi proteins are required for normal fertility, but the mechanisms of piRNA biogenesis remain elusive. Here, we show that each Caenorhabditis elegans piRNA represents a tiny, autonomous transcriptional unit. Remarkably, the minimal C. elegans genome requires only a 21 nucleotide ( nt ) piRNA sequence and an ∼50 nt upstream motif with limited genomic context for expression. Combining computational analyses with a novel, in vivo transgenic system, we demonstrate that this upstream motif is necessary for independent expression of a germline-enriched, Piwi-dependent piRNA. We further show that a single nucleotide position within this motif directs differential germline enrichment of the piRNA gene. Together, our results suggest that each C. nemans piRNA upstream motif encodes all of the information necessary for driving independent, autonomous, transcription from more than 15, 000 unique piRNA loci in C..
Brucella spp. replicate within host cells in the form of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) -derived vacuoles. The mechanisms by which the bacteria are sequestered into such vacuole formation and obtain a continuous membrane supply for their replication remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we identified a novel host factor, Yip1A, which regulates the activation of IRE1, and the subsequent formation of ER-derived membrane compartments. We found that the ER is activated in a time-dependent manner, and that the COPII vesicle components Sar1, Sec23, and Sec24D were upregulated. Second, a marked accretion of ER derived vacuol formation was observed around replicating bacteria using fluorescent microscopy and electron microscopy. These results indicate that the activation and subsequent formation are critical for B. abortus to establish a safe replication niche.
Tombusviruses depend on subversions of multiple host factors and retarget cellular pathways to support viral replication. In this work, we demonstrate that tomato bushy stunt virus ( TBSV ) and the closely-related carnation Italian ringspot virus ( CIRV ) recruit the cellular Vps34 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) into the large viral replication compartment. The kinase function of Vps33 is critical for TBSv replication, suggesting that PI ( 3 ) P phosphoinositide is utilized by TBS Vps 34 for building of the replication compartment in the replication. We also observed increased expression of VPS34 and the higher abundance of PI (3 ) P in the presence of the tombusviral replication proteins, which likely leads to more efficient tombusvirirus replication. Accordingly, overexpression of PI3 ) p phosphatase in yeast or plants inhibited TBS vesicle replication on the peroxisomal membranes and CIRVs replication on mitochondrial membranes. Moreover, the purified PI ( three ) P protein reduced TBSVs replicase assembly in a cell-free system. We found that the cellular vps34 and PI3P are needed for the stability of the p33 replication protein, which is degraded by the 26S proteasome when PI ( 2 ) P abundance was decreased by an inhibitor of the Vps35 replication protein.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) remains the most prevalent mosquito-borne virus, with patterns of disease varying geographically based on the co-circulation of serotypes 1–4, different virus genotypes, human population growth and migration, including urbanization, and geographic expansion of mosquito vectors. Understanding the epidemiology of DENV from humans to mosquitoes is complicated by the need to quantify virus transmission between humans and mosquitoes. Methodologically, examinations of the infectiousness of virus to mosquitoes have had important experimental constraints that limit extrapolation to natural human-to-mosquito transmission. In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of using direct and indirect mosquito feeding methods for field-based studies on dengue transmission in Iquitos, Peru. We found that DENV infection and dissemination rates were not significantly different following direct feeding and indirect-EDTA feeding; however, infection rates were significantly lower for mosquitoes that fed indirectly on blood with no additive. Dissemination rates were similar across all feeding methods. No differences were detected in DENV infections or dissemination rates in mosquitoes fed directly on participants with different dengues illness severity. Our study demonstrates the viability of direct mosquito feeding as a method to study DENV transmission from human to mosquitoes. Direct mosquito feeding is preferable in terms of logistical ease, biosecurity, and reliability.
Many chemotherapeutic regimens are differentially effective from one patient to the next. Understanding the causes of this variability is a critical step towards the development of personalized treatments and improvements to existing medications. Here, we investigate sensitivity to a group of anti-neoplastic drugs that target topoisomerase II using the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. We show that wild strains of C. elegans vary in their sensitivity to these drugs, and we use an unbiased genetic approach to demonstrate that this natural variation is explained by a methionine-to-glutamine substitution in topoisomase II ( TOP-2 ). The presence of this residue increases hydrophobic interactions between TOP-1 and its poison etoposide, as compared to a polar glutamine. We hypothesize that this stabilizing interaction results in increased genomic instability in strains that contain a meth ionine residue. These results demonstrate the utility of using C. worms natural genetic variation to identify mechanisms of drug susceptibility in human cells that could inform human health decisions based on genetic information.
Most of the available information about the genetic mechanisms that govern lifespan and aging were obtained by studying single-gene mutations in invertebrates or short-lived, highly inbred vertebrate species. However, it is not clear whether insights about aging relevant genes and pathways gained from these species can be applied to long-lived species like humans. To gain new insights into genetic mechanisms determining mammalian lifespans, we obtained genomic and transcriptomic data from 17 rodent species and scanned eleven evolutionary branches associated with the evolution of enhanced longevity for positively selected genes ( PSGs ). Indicating relevance for aging, the set of 250 identified PSGs showed in liver of long- and short-living naked mole-rats and short lived rats an expression pattern that fits the antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging. Moreover, we found the PSGs to be enriched for genes known to be related to aging. Among these enrichments were “cellular respiration” and “metal ion homeostasis”, as well as functional terms associated with processes regulated by the mTOR pathway: translation, autophagy and inflammation. Remarkably, among PSGs are RHEB, a regulator of mTOR, and IGF1, both central components of aging-relevant pathways. Exemplary protein homology modeling suggests functional consequences for amino acid changes under positive selection. Therefore, we conclude that our results provide a meaningful resource for follow-up studies to mechanistically link identified genes and amino acids in positive selection to aging and lifespan determination.
Despite control measures applied worldwide over decades, arthropod-borne diseases continue to pose a constant threat to human and domestic animal health. Human-induced changes in the environment, climate change, passive transportation and acquisition of resistance to insecticides by the vectors are contributing to a dramatic re-emergence of harmful viruses such as dengue ( DENV ) and yellow fever ( YFV ) transmitted by mosquitoes. As well, further pathogens are rapidly spreading in areas where suitable vectors and environmental conditions are present and are showing a day by day increasing status of pathogenic relevance. A new Aedes albopictus transinfection ( ARwP-M ) was generated by the introduction of wMel Wolbachia in the line of Aedes aegypti. The obtained line showed a 100% rate of maternal inheritance of the wMel and wPip Wolbachiae. Survival, female fecundity and egg fertility did not show to differ between the three Ae. alboptus lines. Crosses between ARwPs-M males and SANG females were fully unfertile regardless of male age while egg hatch in reverse crosses increased from 0 to about 17% with SANG males aging from 3 to 17 days. When competing with Sang males for SANG female, ARwp-M females induced a level of sterility significantly higher than that expected for an equal mating competitiveness compared to the wild-types. These findings are expected to promote the exploitation of Wolbachias to suppress wild-type Ae. anbopitus populations.
Many biological processes are regulated through complex networks of protein interactions where a globular domain in one protein recognizes a linear peptide from another, creating a relatively small contact interface. These peptide stretches are often found in unstructured regions of proteins, and contain a consensus motif complementary to the interaction surface displayed by their binding partners. While most current methods for the de novo discovery of such motifs exploit their tendency to occur in disordered regions, our work here focuses on another observation: upon binding to their partner domain, motifs adopt a well-defined structure. Indeed, through the analysis of all peptide-mediated interactions of known high-resolution three-dimensional structure, we found that the structure of the peptide may be as characteristic as the consensus motif, and help identify target peptides even though they do not match the established patterns. Our analyses of the structural features of known motifs reveal that they tend to have a particular stretched and elongated structure, unlike most other peptides of the same length. Accordingly, we have implemented a strategy based on a Support Vector Machine that uses this features, along with other structure-encoded information about binding interfaces, to search the set of protein interaction of known 3D structure and to identify unnoticed peptide interactions among them. We have also derived consensus patterns for these interactions, whenever enough information was available, and compared our results with established linear motif patterns and their binding domains. Finally, to cross-validate our identification strategy, we scanned interactome networks from four model organisms with our newly derived patterns to see if any of them occurred more often than expected.
Environmental enteropathy ( EE ) is an asymptomatic variant in small intestinal mucosal architecture, which is now recognised as a major contributor to the poor linear growth ( stunting ) of millions of children in many of the world’s most disadvantaged populations. We set out to define cellular mechanisms of impaired barrier function in EE and explore protective mechanisms. We studied 49 adults with environmental enteropathy in Lusaka, Zambia using confocal laser endomicroscopy ( CLE ) ; histology, immunohistochemistry and mRNA sequencing of small intestinal biopsies; and correlated these with plasma lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) and a zinc uptake test. We found that low circulating LPS was associated with cell shedding events and with serum glucagon-like peptide-2 ( GLP-2 ) in blood. Zinc uptake from a test dose of 25mg was attenuated in 30/47 ( 64% ) individuals and in multivariate analysis was reduced by HIV, but positively correlated with GLP2. GLP 2 and other protective peptides may play an important role in mucosal protection.
Superinfection exclusion ( SIE ) refers to the ability of a pre-existing virus ( the primary invader ) to exclude secondary infections by the same or closely related viruses ( superinfectors ) at cellular and/or organismal levels. SIE has been observed with many human and animal pathogenic viruses, including the reverse-transcribing human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) and positive sense ( + ) RNA viruses like West Nile virus ( WNV ). Sie has been documented for many plant and animal viruses, but the molecular mechanisms of SIE remain little elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that SIE of turnip crinkle virus ( TCV ) is exclusively determined by p28, one of the two replication proteins encoded by this virus. p28 is expressed from a TCV replicon, and it exerts strong SIE to a different TCV replication-competent p28 mutant. Strikingly, p28-mediated SIE is dramatically enhanced by C-terminally fused epitope tags or fluorescent proteins, but weakened by N-terminal modifications, but it inversely correlates with the ability to complement the replication of a p28 deficient p28. This novel, simple mechanism could prove to be applicable to many other viruses, and predicts a novel target for antiviral therapy.
T. cruzi trans-sialidase ( TS ) is a member of a family of proteins involved in the production of sialic acid, which is required for parasite infectivity. TS has been shown to be highly immunogenic and provides protection against acute lethal challenge. However, long-term protection induced by TS DNA vaccines has not been reported. The goal of the present work was to test whether the co-administration of a plasmid encoding IL-15 ( pIL-15 ) could improve the duration of protection achieved through genetic vaccination with plasmids encoding TS ( pTS ) alone. We immunized BALB/c mice with pTS in the presence or absence of pIL and studied immune responses and protection against lethal systemic challenge at 1 to 6 months post-vaccination. Mice receiving pTS alone developed robust TS-specific IFN-γ responses and survived a lethal challenge given within the first 3 months following immunization. Furthermore, these TS-derived T cells were better able to expand after in vitro re-stimulation. Addition of p IL- 15 during genetic vaccination greatly improved long-lasting T cell survival, memory T cell expansion, and long-lived protection against the important human parasite, T. cruzis.
The Polo-like kinase, TbPLK, plays essential roles in basal body segregation, flagellum attachment and cytokinesis in Trypanosoma brucei. The level of TbPlK protein is tightly controlled, but the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here, we report a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex composed of Cullin4, the DNA damage-binding protein 1 homolog TbDDB1, and a WD40-repeat protein WDR1 that controls TbplK abundance in the basal body and the bilobe. Depletion of WDR 1 inhibits bilobe duplication and basal body separation, disrupts the assembly of the new flagella filament and detaches the new cell body. Consistent with its role in Tb PLK degradation, depletion of W DR1 causes excessive accumulation of T bPLK in the body and in the bilob, leading to continuous phosphorylation of T-Centrin2 in the flagelobe at late cell cycle stages. Together, these results identify a novel WD40/repeat protein as a target for degradation by the proteasome after cell cycle transition from G1 to S phase, thereby promoting bilobe- and basal-body segregation, basal body-separation and flagelli-cell body adhesion.
DExD/H box RNA helicases, such as the RIG-I-like receptors ( RLR ), are important components of the innate immune system. Here we demonstrate a pivotal and sex-specific role for the heterosomal isoforms of DDX3X in the immune system in hematopoiesis. Mice lacking the DX3 isoforms showed an altered leukocyte composition in bone marrow and spleen and a striking inability to combat infection with Listeria monocytogenes. Alterations in innate immune responses resulted from decreased effector cell availability and function as well as a sex-dependent impairment of cytokine synthesis. Thus, our data provide further in vivo evidence for an essential contribution of a non-RLR DExD-H RNA helicase to innate immunity and suggest it may contribute to sex-related differences in resistance to microbes and resilience to inflammatory disease.
Olfactory receptor neurons ( ORNs ) are essential for the recognition of odor molecules. In insects, ORNs have been the subject of intensive studies during the last fifty years using molecular, radiochemical, pharmacological, electrophysiological, calcium imaging, behavioral and modeling techniques. A reasonably complete picture of the transduction processes emerges from these studies, although some of the molecular and ionic channel mechanisms underlying the process still remain elusive. Here we present a qualitative model of the pheromone transduction cascade integrating the known mechanisms and the ionic mechanisms. The model obtained captures the main features of the dose–response curves: the wide dynamic range of six decades with the same amplitudes as the experimental data, the short rising time, and the long falling time. It also reproduces the second messenger kinetics. It suggests that the two main types of depolarizing ionic channels play different roles at low and high pheromerone concentrations; the DAG-gated cationic channel plays the major role for depolarization at low concentrations and the Ca2+-activated Cl− channel plays a major role at middle and high concentrations.
Tumor suppressor p53 is activated in response to DNA damage and cellular stress signals and regulates the expression of target genes to elicit cell-growth arrest, DNA damage repair, or apoptosis to prevent the propagation of damaged or compromised cells. Understanding the regulatory logic of p53 and the genome is critical to understanding p53 biology in normal and tumor cells. To elucidate how p53 RE sequences and local chromatin context interact to affect p53 binding and gene transactivation, we have mapped genome-wide binding localizations of the canonical p53 responsive element ( p53RE ) in human lymphoblastoid cell lines ( LCL ). We observed that p53-regulated genes were suppressed at baseline and marked by repressive histone modifications or displayed CTCF binding. We also observed a clear relationship between p53 occupancy, gene expression, H3K4me3, chromatin accessibility ( DNase 1 hypersensitivity, DHS ), and evolutionary conservation at the p53 receptor. Furthermore, we observed that P53REs located in transposable element ( TE ) repeats were associated with highly negative PhyloP scores ( predicted fast-evolving ) and altered H3-me3 and DHS levels. These results underscore the systematic interaction between chromatin status and p53 regulatory elements in the induced transactivation response. This p53 regulated response appears to have been tuned via evolutionary processes that may have led to repression and/or utilization of p3REs originating from primate-specific transposon elements.
Bacterial two-component signaling systems offer a rich diversity of sensory systems that are built around a core phosphotransfer reaction between histidine kinases and their output response regulator proteins, and thus are a good target for reengineering through synthetic biology. Here, we explore the signal-response relationship arising from a specific motif found in two- component signaling systems. In this motif, a single histidine protein kinase ( HK ) phosphorylates reversibly to two separate output response regulators ( RRs ). We show that, under the experimentally observed parameters from bacteria and yeast, this motif not only allows rapid signal termination, whereby one of the RRs acts as a phosphate sink towards the other RR ( i. e. the output RR ), but also implements a sigmoidal signal- response relationship. We identify two mathematical conditions on system parameters that are necessary for sigmoid signal-responding relationships and define key parameters that control threshold levels and sensitivity of the signal response curve. These findings allow better understanding of the physiological responses mediated by phosphate sink-containing two component systems in microbes and plants, and will facilitate design of synthetic signaling proteins.
In many systems, individual cells within isogenic populations can show significant variation in stress tolerance, but the nature of this heterogeneity is not clear. To investigate this, we used single-cell RNA sequencing to quantify transcript heterogeneity in single Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells treated with and without salt stress to explore population variation and identify cellular covariates that influence the stress-responsive transcriptome. Leveraging the extensive knowledge of yeast transcriptional regulation, we uncovered significant regulatory variation in individual yeast cells, both before and after stress. We also discovered that a subset of cells appears to decouple expression of ribosomal protein genes from the environmental stress response in a manner partly correlated with the cell cycle but unrelated to the yeast ultradian metabolic cycle. Live-cell imaging of cells expressing pairs of fluorescent regulators, including the transcription factor Msn2 with Dot6, Sfp1, or MAP kinase Hog1, revealed both coordinated and decoupled nucleocytoplasmic shuttling. Together with transcriptomic analysis, our results suggest that cells maintain a cellular filter against decoupling bursts of transcription factor activation but mount a stress response upon coordinated regulation. A better understanding of the regulatory networks that control heterogeneity in transcription and stress tolerance will open new avenues to control population behavior.
African trypanosomiasis is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei, transmitted between mammals by the bite of a tsetse fly. It has been recently shown that parasites accumulate in large numbers in various organs and tissues, including the mouse testis. Whether parasites are protected from the immune system in the male reproductive organ or can be transmitted through sexual route remains unknown. Here we show that parasites can be detected by fine needle aspiration cytology of the mouse reproductive organs, and histopathological analysis revealed that parasites are associated with a diffuse and marked local inflammatory response, macrophage-rich ( granulomatous epididymitis ). No parasites were found in the lumen of intact epididymal ducts or seminiferous tubules of the testis, indicating that the large majority of the parasites are not located in immune-privileged sites. In fact, these parasites are also associated with marked inflammatory cell infiltration, parasite degeneration, and severe tissue damage and rupture of the epidids. Overall, this work shows that just like in the bloodstream and most other tissues, in the female reproductive organs T. bruceis are exposed to a strong immune response. The detection of a very high number of parasites in this organ and its accessibility opens the possibility of using fine needle-acquisition cytology as a complementary diagnostic tool in Animal African Trypanomiasis.
Chemosensation is an important process that is essential for survival and reproduction in most organisms. For most organisms, chemosensation involves the expression of large families of chemoreceptor proteins, whose expression must be tuned appropriately to changes in the chemical environment. To answer these questions, we used Drosophila melanogaster, because its chemosensory systems are well characterized and both the genotype and environment can be controlled precisely. We found that genes in clusters are independently regulated in the two sexes, during different developmental stages, and under different physiological and social conditions. Expression of distinct subgroups of chereceptor genes is sensitive to reproductive state and social interactions. Furthermore, exposure of flies only to odor of the opposite sex results in altered transcript abundance of genes. This finely pixilated modular organization of the chemoreceptory transcriptome allows finely tuned phenotypic plasticity of expression of the Chemoreceptor repertoire under a wide range of external environmental conditions. We analyzed covariance of transcript abundance in the chemosensor subgenome across all environmental conditions and found that they segregated into 20 relatively small, biologically relevant modules of highly correlated transcripts. This fine pixilation modular organization enables fine tuning of the gene expression in response to ecologically relevant environmental and physiological conditions.
Meiotic errors generate an extraordinary number of chromosome abnormalities in humans, with most of the abnormalities originating in the first meiotic division in the oocyte. Studies conducted over the past 10–20 years have identified the first molecular correlate of these abnormalities, as disturbances in meiotic recombination have been linked to a variety of human trisomies of maternal origin. Accordingly, we initiated studies of crossover-associated proteins ( e. g., MLH1 ) in human fetal oocytes to analyze their number and distribution on nondisjunction-prone human chromosomes and, more generally, to characterize genome-wide levels of recombination in the human female. Our analyses indicate that the number and location of crossover foci is lower than predicted from genetic linkage analysis, but its localization pattern conforms to that expected for a crossover-related protein. In studies of individual chromosomes, our observations provide evidence for the presence of “vulnerable” crossover configurations in the fetal oocyte, consistent with the idea that these are subsequently translated into nondisJunctional events in the adult oocyte and that these occur decades later.
Blood-feeding arthropods—like mosquitoes, sand flies, and ticks—transmit many diseases that impose serious public health and economic burdens. When a blood feeding arthropod bites a mammal, it injects saliva containing immunogenic compounds that facilitate feeding. Evidence from Leishmania, Plasmodium and arboviral infections suggests that the immune responses elicited by pre-exposure to saliva can alter disease progression if the host later becomes infected. Such pre-sensitisation of host immunity has been reported to both exacerbate and limit infection symptoms, depending on the system in question, with potential implications for recovery. Here we develop mathematical models to determine the potential for pre-exposed saliva to affect between-host infection dynamics and modulate the consequences of interventions that target vectors. We show that the abundance of pre-infected infected hosts should increase when control efforts moderately increase vector mortality rates. However, when immune pre-ensitised hosts prolong the duration of infection, increasing vector mortality may achieve greater than expected disease control. We find a large range of plausible epidemiological outcomes, positive and negative for public health, underscoring the need to quantify the potential negative interaction between pre-existing immunity and vector control, and for deploying saliva-based vaccines effectively in the future.
Leishmaniasis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries, with 2 million new cases every year. The human L. amazonensis infection may lead to different clinical forms, varying from localized cutaneous leishmaniases ( LCL ), frequently associated to anergy to parasite’s antigens. The murine model has been commonly used to analyze several aspects of Leishmania infection such as the virulence of different parasite species and how different mouse strains respond to the same parasite species. One interesting issue rarely analyzed is how the host immune response affects Leishmania phenotype and virulence. Aiming to study the effect of host immune system on Leishmann proteins we compared the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB-c nude mice. We found that the expression of these two proteins was increased in parasites from nude mice, suggesting that T cells probably restrain their posttranslational modifications in BALB or BALB mice. On the other hand, an isoform of HSP70 was increased. We believe our study may allow identification of potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression.
Activation-induced cytosine deaminase ( AID ) deaminates cytosines in DNA to initiate immunoglobulin gene diversification and to reprogram CpG methylation in early development. AID is potentially highly mutagenic, and it causes genomic instability evident as translocations in B cell malignancies. Here we show that AID undergoes nuclear degradation more slowly in G1 phase than in S or G2-M phase, and that mutations that affect regulatory phosphorylation or catalytic activity can alter AID stability and abundance. We directly test the role of cell cycle regulation by fusing AID to tags that destabilize nuclear protein outside of G1 or S-G2/M phases. We show that enforced nuclear localization of AID accelerates somatic hypermutation and class switch recombination, and is well-tolerated; while nuclear AID compromises viability. We identify AID derivatives that accelerate somatic Hypermutation with minimal impact on viability, which will be useful tools for engineering genes and proteins by iterative mutagenesis and selection. Our results further suggest that use of cells cycle tags to regulate nuclear stability may be generally applicable to studying DNA repair and to engineering the genome.
Plants annually produce 200 billion tons of lignocellulosic biomass, which is metabolized by specialized microbes in diverse environments. For instance, recycling of plant biomass by soil and marine microbes is a key part of the global carbon cycle and intestinal bacteria ferment indigestible plant fiber to short chain fatty acids that constitute 60–85% of calories in ruminants and 5–10% in humans. Further, as only 2% of cellulosic bioconversion is currently used by humans, it is a vast potential feedstock that industrial microbes could convert into energy and commodities. Elucidating how microbes depolymerize and metabolize plant biomass is thus important to understand carbon flow in the environment, to promote healthy human nutrition and prevent disease, and to develop industrial processes based on cellulosics. Here we demonstrate a broadly applicable method to analyze how microbes metabolize and degrade plant biomass that integrates carbohydrate-active enzyme ( CAZYme ) assays, RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ), and anaerobic growth screening. Fifty-six up-regulated CAZymes were purified, and their activities show most polysaccharides are degraded by multiple enzymes, often from the same family, but with divergent rates, specificities, and cellular localizations. We discuss how these results advance our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolise plant biomass.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and onchocerciasis are two of the major neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) presently targeted for elimination using the World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommended strategy of preventive chemotherapy and transmission control ( PCT ). LF is a disease caused by the lymphatic filarial roundworms Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi and Brugias timori, and transmitted by mosquitos. The elimination strategy is through annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) with albendazole and ivermectin/diethylcarbamazine. LF elimination is implemented through the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) which has expanded MDA coverage to all 14 endemic districts. In this paper we describe the impact of three rounds of MDA on LF prevalence and mf density in areas of low LF endemicity. The results show that LF prevalence decreased to <1. 0% in all but one of the 12 districts after three rounds. Overall mf prevalence reduced by 65. 4% among mf-positive individuals, and 95. 8% for the entire population.
The study of natural communities using high throughput genomic surveys, such as 16S rRNA gene profiling, has become routine, yet the development of appropriate, well validated analysis methods is still ongoing. Correlation analysis provides a well trodden path to achieving this goal, but it is not valid when applied to genomic survey data ( GSD ). The challanges associated with GSD stem from the fact that they are a relative, rather than absolute, measure of abundances of community components. The counts comprising these data are set by the amount of genetic material extracted from the community or the sequencing depth, and analysis typically begins by normalizing the observed counts by the total number of counts. The resulting fractions fall into a class of data termed closed or compositional, and pose its particular geometrical and statistical properties. The first challenge is obtaining reliable and informative counts, equivalent to rank correlations and mutual information for non-compositional data, and detecting temporal patterns within and between communities requires non-standard, compositional approaches. In this paper, we show that the standard approach yields 3 spurious species-species interactions for each true interaction and misses 60% of the true interactions in the human microbiome data, but, as predicted, most of the erroneous links are found in samples with the lowest diversity.
Lysozyme, a prominent member of these antimicrobials, is found in mucosal surfaces such as those lining the upper respiratory tract. Lysozyme has two distinct antibacterial activities: a muramidase activity that hydrolyzes bacterial peptidoglycan and a non-muramidases activity attributable to its function as a cationic antimicrobial peptide. Two enzymes ( PgdA, a N-acetylglucosamine deacetylase, and Adr, an O-acetyletransferase ) that modify different sites on the peptidose of the bacterial cell wall have been implicated in its resistance to lysozyme in vitro. In this study, we demonstrate that the antimicrobial effect of human lyzyme is due to its muramidsase activity and that both peptidosamine and adr modifications are required for full resistance by pneumococci. Our results demonstrate the critical role of both lyso enzyme and peptide modifications in dictating the composition of the microflora of the mucosal surface of the upper airway.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) infection is recognized as one of the most important mosquito borne human infections in the 21th century. The burden of dengue has increased with 2. 5 billion people worldwide at risk of contracting the disease, 55% of world population, and an estimated 70–500 million of densue infections occurring annually in 100 endemic countries that includes approximately 22, 000 fatal cases. The DENV nonstructural 1 ( NS1 ) antigen is a highly conserved glycoprotein produced in both membrane-associated and membrane-transmitted proteins. DENV can infect many cell types and cause diverse clinical and pathological effects. The goal of the study was to assess for the first time the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as an alternative tool to detect DENV in tissue specimens from previously confirmed fatal cases ( n = 23 ) that occurred in 2002 in Brazil. A total of 74 tissue specimens were available: liver, lung, brain, spleen, lung and spleen. The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver ( 91. 3%; 21/23 ), lung ( 71. 4%; 10/14 ), heart ( 100%; 4/4 ), brain ( 80%; 8/10 ) and thymus ( 100% ). The accuracy, sensitivity and rapidity of the NS1 assay make it suitable for effective dengues surveillance and indicate its use as a complement for the diagnosis of fatal dengued cases.
Multiple Myeloma ( MM ) is a malignancy of plasma cells provoked by immunoglobulin gene rearrangements, accounting for slightly more than 10% of all hematologic cancer diagnoses in the US. The overall goal of this study is to elucidate differences in molecular alterations in MM as a function of self-reported race and genetic ancestry. Our study utilized whole exome, RNA-sequencing, and correlated clinical data from 718 MM patients from the Multiple Myelomas Research Foundation CoMMpass study Interim Analysis 9. Somatic mutational analyses based upon self-report race corrected for ancestry revealed significant differences in mutation frequencies between groups. Of interest, BCL7A, BRWD3, and AUTS2 demonstrate significantly higher mutation frequencies among AA cases. Moreover, we detected a significant difference in mutation frequency of TP53 and IRF4 with frequencies higher among CA cases. These findings provide rationale for interrogating diverse tumor cohorts to best understand tumor genomics across populations.
In healthy tissues, cell division and cell death are tightly controlled processes, which enable a precise balance assuring that the number of cells in the body remains approximately constant. However, during each cell division mistakes in DNA replication can occur, leading to accumulation of mutations in individual cells. The majority of such mutations are effectively neutral ( passengers ), but some of them ( drivers ) can provide selective advantage to the cell, by tipping the balance of division and death slightly in favor of increased proliferation. This unwanted evolution of somatic cells can lead to a clonal expansion of cells with driver mutations, which can ultimately result in the formation of tumors and seeding of new lesions.
Polyglutamine ( polyQ ) expansion in exon1 ( XN1 ) of the huntingtin protein is linked to Huntington's disease. When the number of glutamines exceeds a threshold of approximately 36–40 repeats, XN 1 can readily form amyloid aggregates similar to those associated with disease. Many experiments suggest that the length-dependent misfolding of monomeric XN plays an important role in the length–dependent aggregation mechanism. Elucidating the misfolded polyQ region can help determine the molecular mechanism of XN-1 aggregation and potentially help develop strategies to inhibit XN/XN1 aggregation. Here, we perform molecular dynamics simulations to study the folding and aggregation mechanism of the polyQ polypeptide. We find that polyQ peptides have a positive correlation between their probability to form a β-rich misfold and their expansion length. We also find that the flanking regions of the PolyQ region affect its probability to fold into β-sheet conformations. Thus, our molecular dynamics study provides a structural insight of the mis-folding and aggregation mechanisms of exon 1.
CRISPR ( Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats ) loci, together with cas genes, form the CRISPR/Cas adaptive immune system, a primary defense strategy that eubacteria and archaea mobilize against foreign nucleic acids, including phages and conjugative plasmids. Short spacer sequences separated by the repeats are derived from foreign DNA and direct interference to future infections. The availability of hundreds of shotgun metagenomic datasets from the Human Microbiome Project ( HMP ) enables us to explore the distribution and diversity of known CRISPs in human-associated microbial communities and to discover new CRISPs. We propose a targeted assembly strategy to reconstruct CRISRP arrays, which whole-metagenome assemblies fail to identify. We use the direct repeat consensus sequence to recruit reads from each HMP dataset and then assemble the recruited reads into CRIS PR loci; the unique spacer sequence can then be extracted for analysis. Our preliminary exploration of viral contigs revealed substantial spacer diversity within and between subjects over time, which is imagined to reflect the dynamics of phage and other infectious agents in the human mouth. This work indicates the importance of effective identification and characterization of CRISPCs to the study of the dynamic ecology of microbiomes.
Circadian rhythms have been described in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, a model organism for the study of development and behavior. However, the molecular composition and regulation of endogenous pacemakers that generate circadian rhythms are remarkably divergent across kingdoms, as well as between eukaryotes and prokaryotes, suggesting multiple evolutionary origins for the circadian clock. Thus, whether this organism contains a bona fide circadian clock remains an open question. Here we use genome-wide expression profiling experiments to identify light- and temperature-entrained transcripts in C. elegans. These transcripts exhibit rhythmic expression with temperature-compensated 24-h periods. In addition, their expression is sustained under constant conditions, suggesting that they are under circadian regulation. Light and temperature cycles strongly drive gene expression and appear to entrain largely nonoverlapping gene sets. We show that mutations in a cyclic nucleotide-gated channel required for sensory transduction abolish both light and temperature gene expression, implying that environmental cues act cell-nonautonomously to drive circadian rhythms in this organism. Together, these findings demonstrate circadian-regulated transcriptional rhythms and suggest that further analyses of this organism will provide new information about the evolution and function of this biological clock.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription. RAD3 mutations result in partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination ( hyper-Rec ) phenotype. Previous studies showed that the hyper-rec phenotype associated with rad3-101 and rad3102 mutants can be explained as a consequence of persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) by replication. We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered. We found that both rad3 and Rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold. Mapping of these events shows that three-quarters of these crossover reflect DSB formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids ( double sister-chromatid breaks, DSCBs ). The remainder reflects DSB forms in single chromatid break-induced replication events. The ratio of DSB to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells. We also found a significant association between the location of these recombination event and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX. These data suggest that spontaneous mitotic events are initiated by incomplete NER reactions.
The gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori infects the human stomach and if left untreated causes chronic gastritis that potentially leads to peptic ulcer disease and gastric cancer. The bacterium has a large set of simple sequence repeats ( SSRs ), which constitute contingency loci. Through a slipped strand mispairing mechanism, the SSRs generate heterogeneous populations that facilitate adaptation. Here, we present a model that explains, in molecular terms, how an intergenically located T-tract, via slipped strand-mispairing, operates with a rheostat-like function, to fine-tune activity of the promoter that drives expression of the sialic acid binding adhesin, SabA. We show that the length of the T-Tract generates multiphasic output from the sabA promoter. Consequently, this alters the binding of the RNA polymerase, through shifting of the axial alignment between the core promoter and UP-like elements. We also show that variations in the tract length act as rheosterats to modulate cognate promoter output. Thus, we propose that this generally applicable mechanism, mediated by promoter-proximal SSRs, provides an alternative mechanism for transcriptional regulation in bacteria, such as H. pylor, which possesses a limited repertoire of classical trans-acting regulatory factors.
High-risk human papillomavirus ( HPVs ) are the causative agents of cervical and other anogenital cancers. HPVs must evade host innate immune surveillance to establish persistent infections and to amplify viral genomes upon differentiation. Members of the JAK-STAT family are important regulators of the innate immune response and HPV proteins downregulate expression of STAT-1 to allow for stable maintenance of viral episomes. STAT-5 is another member of this pathway that modulates the inflammatory response and plays an important role in controlling cell cycle progression in response to cytokines and growth factors. Our studies show that HPV E7 activates STAT-4 and that it is necessary for genome amplification through activation of the ATM DNA damage response that is mediated, in part, through the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ ( PPARγ ). Knockdown studies indicate that this is mediated through the ATM-DNA damage response and that this activity is mediated by the peroxin proliferator receptor �γ ( PPA ). Overall, these findings identify an important new regulatory mechanism by which the innate immunity regulator, STAT- 5, promotes HPV viral replication through activation and activation of this DNA damage pathway.
Salmonella enterica serovars Typhi ( S. Typhi ) and Paratyphi A are human-specific pathogens, and the predominant cause of enteric ( typhoid ) fever globally. Chronic carriers may act as persistent reservoirs of infection within a community and may introduce infection to susceptible individuals and new communities. Little is known about the interaction between the host and pathogen in the biliary tract of chronic carriers, and there is currently no reliable diagnostic assay to identify asymptomatic S. typhi carriage. To study host-pathogen interactions in the host-biliary tract during S. Phi carriage, we applied an immunoscreening technique called in vivo-induced antigen technology ( IVIAT ) to identify potential biomarkers unique to carriers. We identified humorally immunogenic bacterial antigens expressed uniquely in the in vivo environment, and we hypothesized that S. Typhi surviving in human carriers may express a distinct antigenic profile distinct from that expressed in bacteria grown using standard in vitro conditions or during acute infection. Further evaluation of YncE and other identified antigenes could lead to the development of improved diagnostic assays to detect asymptic S. phi carriers in typhoid endemic zones.
In recent years it has become increasingly clear that the expression of eukaryotic genomes is far more complex than previously thought. In order to study the role played by cellular RNA pools produced by homologous genomic loci in defining the transcriptional state of a silenced gene, we tested the effect of non-functional alleles of the white gene in the presence of a functional copy of white silenced by heterochromatin. We found that non-function alleles, unable to produce a coding transcript but with the potential of transcribing other RNA’s from the white locus, could trans-reactivate the gene expression of a wild type copy of the same gene silenced by the heterochromeatin. This new epigenetic phenomenon of transcriptional trans-activation is heritable, relies on the presence-of-homologous RNAs, and is affected by mutations in genes involved in post-transcriptional gene silencing. Our data suggest a general new unexpected level of gene expression control mediated by heterologous RNA molecules in the context of homochromatic genes.
Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of coagulation and complement cascades. While most inhibitors characterized to date were found in the salivary glands, relatively few others have been identified in the midgut. Among those, Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin, elastase, and kallikrein. Boophilain inhibits thrombosis in vivo by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site. Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation, fibrin formation, and clot-bound thrombus formation. Notably, we also identified BoophILin as a non-competitive inhibitor of FXIa, preventing FIX activation. Boobilin inhibits kallIKrein activity and the reciprocal activation, indicating that it targets the contact pathway. Boochilin abrogates cathepsin G- and plasmin-induced platelet formation and partially affects elastases-mediated cleavage of Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor ( TFPI ). Finally, we found that Boophiliin inhibits carotid artery occlusion in vivo triggered by FeCl3, and promotes bleeding according to the mice tail transection method. Through inhibition of several enzymes involved in proteolytically cascades and cell activation, we have demonstrated that the antithrombotic effect of Boophilusin is likely the result of inhibiting multiple targets, including thromin, FXI, and enzymes associated with neutrophils and platelets.
The gut epithelium represents a finely tuned system where tissue structure strongly influences, and is turn influenced by, its function as both an absorptive surface and a defensive barrier. Mucosal architecture and histology plays a key role in the diagnosis, characterization and pathophysiology of a host of gastrointestinal diseases. Inflammation is a significant factor in the pathogenesis in many gastrointestinal diseases, and it is perhaps the most clinically significant control factor governing the maintenance of the mucosal architecture by morphogenic pathways. We propose that appropriate characterization of the role of inflammation as a controller of enteric mucosal tissue patterning requires understanding the underlying cellular and molecular dynamics that determine the epithelial crypt-villus architecture across a range of conditions from health to disease. Towards this end we have developed the Spatially Explicit General-purpose Model of Enteric Tissue ( SEGMEnT ) to dynamically represent existing knowledge of the behavior of enterin epithelial tissue as influenced by inflammation with the ability to generate a variety of pathophysiological processes within a common platform and from a common knowledge base. SEGmEnT reproduces healthy ileal mucosal dynamics as well as a series of morphogen knock-out/inhibition experiments, and provides insight into a range, clinically relevant cellular-molecular mechanisms, such as a putative role for Phosphotase and tensin homolog/phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( PTEN/PI3K ) as a key point of crosstalk between inflammation and morphogenesis, the protective role of enterocyte sloughing in enteric ischemia-reperfusion, and chronic low level inflammation as an important driver for colonic metaplasia. These results suggest that SEGMsEnT can serve as an integrating platform for the study of inflammation in gastrointestinal disease.
Mosquito-borne diseases heavily impact human health in tropical areas, where some of them co-circulates in several countries. Dengue virus ( DENV ) is a flavivirus distributed mainly in tropical and subtropical areas, causing around 400 million new infections each year for the last three years. The endosymbiont Wolbachia has been deployed in endemic areas of several countries as a strategy to reduce dengue, Zika and chikungunya transmission since mosquitoes with this bacterium have significant reduction on their vector competence to arboviruses. Here, we report the factors that jeopardized the invasion of Wolbachiae in the isolated community of Tubiacanga, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. We initially released susceptible mosquitoes in a local population highly resistant to pyrethroids which, associated with the over use of insecticides by householders, ended jeopardizing Wolbachiosis invasion. A new strain ( wMelRio ) was produced after backcrossing wMelBr females with males from field to introduce mostly pyrethroid resistance alleles. The new strain increased mosquito survival but produced relevant negative effects on Ae. aegypti fecundity traits, reducing egg clutche size and egg hatch. Despite the cost on fitness, wMel Rio successful established where wMel Br failed, revealing that matching local population genetics, especially insecticide resistance background, is critical to achieve invasion.
Poxviruses employ sophisticated, but incompletely understood, signaling pathways that engage cellular defense mechanisms and simultaneously ensure viral factors are modulated properly. For example, the vaccinia B1 protein kinase plays a vital role in inactivating the cellular antiviral factor BAF, and likely orchestrates other pathways as well. In this study, we utilized experimental evolution of a B1 deletion virus to perform an unbiased search for suppressor mutations and identify novel pathways involving B1. After several passages of the ΔB1 virus we observed a robust increase in viral titer of the adapted virus. Interestingly, mutations correlating with a loss of function of B12 provide a striking fitness enhancement to this virus. In support of predictions that reductive evolution is a driver of poxvirus adaptation, this is clear experimental evidence that gene loss can be of significant benefit. Next, we present multiple lines of evidence demonstrating that expression of full length B12 leads to a fitness reduction in viruses with a defect in B1, but has no apparent impact on wild-type virus or other mutant poxviruses. Together, our studies of B1 and B12 present novel evidence that a paralogous kinase-pseudokinase pair can exhibit a unique epistatic relationship in a virus, perhaps serving to enhance B1 conservation during poxevirus evolution and to orchestrate yet-to-be-discovered nuclear events during infection.
The folding and aggregation properties of soluble peptides and small proteins at hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces ( HHI ) play a crucial role in biomedically important processes. One example that has been extensively investigated over the last years are amyloid-fibril forming peptides which are responsible for many human disorders, among them severe neurodegenerative diseases. The amphiphilic character of these proteins and peptides is responsible both for their aggregation propensity as well as for their strong interface activity. In this study, we use molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides, LKKLLKLLKKLLL ( LK ) and EAALAEALAALAE ( EALA ), with built-in secondary amphiphilicity upon forming an alpha-helix. We show that the peptides are neither random coils in bulk water nor fully formed alpha helices, but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes. These provide a basis for conformation-selection and population-shift upon environmental changes. Differences in these peptides’ response to macroscopic and molecular interfaces ( presented by an aggregation partner ) can be linked to their inherent alpha-helices and their inherent aggregation behavior.
Human herpesvirus 6A ( HHV-6A ) and 6B are ubiquitous betaherpesviruses that infects humans within the first years of life and establishes latency in various cell types. Both viruses can integrate their genomes into the telomeres of host chromosomes in latently infected cells. The molecular mechanism of viral integration remains elusive. Intriguingly, HHV6A, and several other herpesviruses harbor arrays of telomeric repeats ( TMR ) identical to human telomere sequences at the ends of their genomes. To determine the role of the TMR, we established an in vitro integration system that allowed us to measure the integration efficiency and genome maintenance by fluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ) and qPCR, respectively. We found that the HHV–6A genome is severely impaired in the absence of the viral TMR and that the pTMR are the key component for integration, while the impTMR only play a minor role. Our study provides the first molecular evidence on the HHVs-6 integration mechanism and the viral sequence elements that facilitate its integration.
Vaccines are the largest known viruses that cause disease in humans and animals. However, poxviruses are also a concern for human health because of the threat of deliberate release of the smallpox virus and occasional zoonosis. In this study, we describe the 2. 6 Å crystal structure of vaccinia virus D13, a key structural component of the outer scaffold of viral crescents. D13 folds into two jellyrolls decorated by a head domain of novel fold. It assembles into trimers that are homologous to the double-barrel capsid proteins of adenovirus and lipid-containing icosahedral viruses. We show that, when tethered onto artificial membranes, D13 forms a honeycomb lattice and assembly products that are structurally similar to the viral crecents and immature particles. The architecture of the D13 honeycomb and the lipid-remodeling abilities of D13 support a model of assembly that exhibits similarities with the giant mimivirus. Overall, these findings establish that the first committed step of poxvirus morphogenesis utilizes an ancestral lipid-Remodeling strategy common to icosahed DNA viruses infecting all kingdoms of life. Furthermore, D 13 is the target of rifampicin and its structure will aid the development of poaxvirus assembly inhibitors.
The root system plays a fundamental role for plant growth and survival, not only by providing support, water and nutrients for the shoot, but also by participating in secondary functions, such as hormone biosynthesis or storage of photoassimilates. Root system architecture, that is the number and arrangement of different root types and their branching pattern, is highly plastic and determined by developmental and environmental factors that interact to optimize soil exploration. This is particularly important for the capture of growth limiting macronutrients, including nitrogen and phosphorus, whose edaphic distribution strongly influences post-embryonic root development and, therefore, root system architecture. Optimization of root system architectures through breeding is therefore of particular interest in crops to increase root system plasticity with respect to biotic and abiotic stresses. In this study, we report the isolation and characterization of a Brachypodium mutant in the TAR2-LIKE ( BdTAR2L ) gene. Unlike the Arabidopsis taa1/tar mutants, BdtAR2l mutants display only mild shoot phenotypes, which surprisingly appear to result from upwardly disturbed auxin homeostasis.
The plasticity of biological traits is manifested on multiple time scales. Regulatory mechanisms govern the physiological adaptation of an individual to changing conditions. On evolutionary time scales, phenotypes are modulated by genetic mutations. Although most studies of evolutionary changes focused on changes in gene function, the role of gene expression in generating phenotypic diversity was emphasized by experiments that traced phenotypical and morphological differences to variations in gene expression. In yeast, the divergence of gene gene expression was linked to the organization of promoter nucleosomes. We found that the genetic changes dominating this initial adaptation differ from those dominating the long-term evolution. First, regulatory cis effects were not observed. Second, regulatory trans mutations did not affect gene expression almost exclusively through duplications, whereas genes of the DPN class did so primarily through trans mutations. We hypothesize that promoter organization constrains the early evolutionary dynamics and in this way biases the path of evolution.
Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATL ), a malignancy of CD4+ T cells that develops in 2–5% of infected individuals over a course of several decades. HTLV/1 transactivator/oncoprotein, Tax, is thought to promote cell proliferation and transformation. Paradoxically, expression of Tax in most cells leads to drastic up-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, p21CIP1/WAF1 and p27KIP1, which cause p53-/pRb-independent cellular senescence. Here we demonstrate that p21-/P27Kip1-mediated senescuation constitutes a checkpoint against IKK/NF-κB hyper-activation. Senescence induced by Tax in HeLa cells is attenuated by mutations in Tax that reduce IKK activation and prevented by blocking NF-κb using a degradation-resistant mutant of I-κ-α. We propose that the balance between Tax and HBZ expression determines the outcome of HTLV infection. Robust HTLV replication and elevated Tax expression drive IKK-NF-KB activation and trigger senescences. HBZ, however, modulates Tax-mediated viral replication and NF-kB activation, thus allowing HTLV–1-infected cells to proliferate, persist, and evolve.
The frontal lobes of the brain are responsible for decision-making and executive control—that is, the selection and coordination of goal-directed behaviors. Current models of frontal executive function, however, do not explain human decisions in everyday environments featuring uncertain, changing, and especially open-ended situations. Here, we propose a computational model of human executive function that clarifies this issue. Using behavioral experiments, we show that unlike others, the proposed model predicts human decisions and their variations across individuals in naturalistic situations. The model reveals that for driving action, the human frontal function monitors up to three/four concurrent behavioral strategies and infers online their ability to predict action outcomes: whenever one appears more reliable than unreliable, this strategy is chosen to guide the selection, learning, retrieval, and creation of behavioral strategies that drive action. Otherwise, a new behavioral strategy is tentatively formed, partly from those stored in long-term memory, then probed, and if competitive confirmed to subsequently drive action, this new strategy is selected as an actor. Thus, human executive control has a monitoring capacity limited to three or four behavioral strategies. This limitation is compensated by the binary structure of executive control that in ambiguous and unknown situations promotes the exploration of new behavioral strategies rather than simply adjusting and switching between previously learned ones.
A central aim of medical systems biology is the development of computational models and techniques to study the effects of pharmacological interventions to treat progressive diseases. A challenging task is the investigation of long-term effects of a ( pharmacological ) treatment, to establish its applicability and to identify potential side effects. We present a new modeling approach, called Analysis of Dynamic Adaptations in Parameter Trajectories ( ADAPT ), to analyze the dynamics of molecular adaptations induced by a pharmacological intervention. The trajectories provide insight in the affected underlying biological systems and identify the molecular events that should be studied in more detail to unravel the mechanistic basis of treatment outcome.
The coordination of our multi-segmented bodies and limbs is an unsolved computational challenge that is dealt with seamlessly by the neuronal circuitries of our brains. In this paper, we synthesize a number of findings into a new hypothesis for how the spinocerebellar systems and the cerebellar cortex can interact to support coordination of the multi-sensorimotor space of our bodies and bodies. A central idea is that recombination of the signals available to the neurons of origin of the neural circuits can be used to approximate a wide array of functions including the spatial and temporal dependencies between limb segments, i. e. information that is necessary in order to achieve coordination. We find that random recombination is not a good strategy since, surprisingly, the number of granule cells severely limits the number number of recombinations that can be represented within the cereral cortex. Instead, we propose that the spinal circuitry provides useful recombinations, which can be described as linear projections through aspects of the sensorimotor input space. Granule cells, potentially with the aid of differentiated thresholding from Golgi cells, enhance the utility of these projections by allowing the Purkinje cell to establish piecewise-linear approximations of non-linear functions.
Mosquitoes play an important role in disease transmission in plants, animals and humans. Mosquitoes are especially significant in disease spread in humans. In this context, the participation of vector based microRNAs in pathogen development is being investigated intensively. We conducted this study to evaluate the role of host miRNAs upon CHIKV ( Chikungunya Virus ) infection in an important vector, Aedes albopictus. We identified 88 and 79 known miRNas in uninfected and CHIK V infected Ae. alboptus Singh's cell line respectively. We further identified nine novel miRNA in Ae.. The results provide insight into the role miRNAS may play in pathogenesis in these two vectors.
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) is a parasitic infection of humans and livestock. The disease is of significant medical and economic importance in many developing countries, including Iran. However, the socioeconomic impact of the disease, in most endemic countries, is not fully understood. The purpose of the present study was to determine the monetary burden of CE in Iran using existing country-level data on human and animal disease, including cost of treatment, productivity losses, and livestock production losses. Estimating the economic impact of a zoonotic disease is a way of quantifying the significance of the diseases in both human and livestock populations. In addition, this type of analysis helps decision-makers prioritize resources for disease control and prevention. Accurate assessment of the economic impacts of CE is crucial to raise awareness of decision-making and to prioritize use of limited resources to provide timely preventive measures. The economic burden of human and animals CE in the country was estimated at US$230 million per year. CE has a considerable economic impact on Iran, with the cost of human CE approximated at 0. 03% of the country's gross domestic product. Establishment of a CE surveillance system and implementation of a control program are necessary to reduce the economic burdens of CE on the country. Cost-benefit analysis of different control programs is recommended, incorporating present knowledge of CE from different countries.
Molecular polyomavirus ( MPyV ) is a small circular double-stranded DNA virus that infects mouse cells, transforms rat cells in culture, and is highly oncogenic in rodents. We have used deep sequencing to follow MPYV infection of mouse NIH3T6 cells at various times after infection and analyzed both the viral and cellular transcriptomes. Alignment of sequencing reads to the viral genome illustrated the transcriptional profile of the early-to-late switch with both early-strand and late-strands RNAs being transcribed at all time points. A number of novel insights into viral gene expression emerged from these studies, including the demonstration of widespread RNA editing of viral transcripts at late times in infection. By late times, 359 host genes were seen to be significantly upregulated and 857 were downregulated. Gene ontology analysis indicated transcripts involved in translation, metabolism, RNA processing, DNA methylation, and protein turnover were upregulated. The levels of a number of long noncoding RNAs were also altered. The presence of a large non-coding RNA, MALAT1, which is involved in splicing speckles and used as a marker in many late-stage cancers, was noticeably downregulated, while several other abundant non-Cells RNAs also were strongly upregulated, suggesting that this is a major change in the viral life cycle and its effects on host cell growth and metabolism.
The number of marathon runners has increased by more than an order of magnitude in four decades, from hundreds of runners in the 1970s to the tens of thousands who will compete in each of the largest marathons in the 2010 season. Myths and misconceptions about human physiology and how it can and should be optimized through training, nutrition, pharmacology, and performance strategy abound in both recreational and competitive athletics, and endurance running is no exception. The present computational study demonstrates that the energetic constraints on endurance runners are more subtle, and depend on several physiologic variables including the muscle mass distribution, liver and muscle glycogen densities, and running speed ( exercise intensity as a fraction of aerobic capacity ) of individual runners. The analytic approach presented here is used to estimate the distance at which runners will exhaust their glycogen stores as a function of running intensity. In so doing it also provides a basis for guidelines ensuring the safety and optimizing the performance of endurance runners, both by setting personally appropriate paces and by prescribing midrace fueling requirements for avoiding ‘the wall. ’ The present analysis also sheds physiologically principled light on important standards in marathon running that until now have remained empirically defined: The qualifying times for the Boston Marathon.
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular protozoan parasite that can invade and replicate in almost all cells of a wide range of warm-blooded animals. In humans it is the 2nd most important foodborne pathogen in terms of annual cost of illness and quality adjusted life year loss. Normally a lifelong, largely asymptomatic, infection is established but in immunocompromised individuals and in congenital infections Toxoplasmosis can lead to severe disease and even death. There is good evidence that both the host genetic background and the genotype of the infecting strain, play a major role in the severity of disease. Here we provide the complete transcriptomes of macrophages infected with 29 different strains of Toxopasma. We identified large differences between strains in the expression level of known parasite effectors and large chromosomal structural variation in some strains. We also identified novel strain-specifically regulated host pathways, including the regulation of the type I interferon response by some atypical strains.
Recombination in enteroviruses provides an evolutionary mechanism for acquiring extensive regions of novel sequence, is suggested to have a role in genotype diversity and is known to have been key to the emergence of novel neuropathogenic variants of poliovirus. Despite the importance of this evolutionary mechanism, the recombination process remains relatively poorly understood. We investigated heterologous recombination using a novel reverse genetic approach that resulted in the isolation of intermediate chimeric intertypic polioviruses bearing genomes with extensive duplicated sequences. Serial passage of viruses exhibiting such imprecise junctions yielded progeny with increased fitness. Mutations or inhibitors that changed polymerase fidelity or the coalescence of replication complexes markedly altered the yield of recombinants ( but did not influence non-replicative recombination ) indicating both that the process is replicative and that it may be possible to enhance or reduce recombination-mediated viral evolution if required.
White adipose tissue ( WAT ) is a particularly appealing target for therapeutics in the treatment of metabolic diseases through norepinephrine ( NE ) -mediated signaling pathways. Although previous studies report NE clearance mechanisms via SLC6A2 on sympathetic neurons or proinflammatory macrophages in adipose tissues ( ATs ), the low catecholamine clearance capacity of SLC 6A2 may limit the cleaning efficiency. Here, we report that mouse organic cation transporter 3 ( Oct3; Slc22a3 ) is highly expressed in WAT and displays the greatest uptake rate of NE as a selective non-neural route of NE clearance in white adipocytes, which differs from other known routes such as adjacent neurons or macrophage. We further show that adipocytes express high levels of NE degradation enzymes Maoa, Maob, and Comt, providing the molecular basis on NE clearance by adipocytes together with its reuptake transporter Oct3. Under NE administration, ablation of Oct3 induces higher body temperature, thermogenesis, and lipolysis compared with littermate controls. After prolonged cold challenge, inguinal WAT ( ingWAT ) shows much stronger browning characteristics and significantly elevated expression of thermogenic and mitochondrial biogenesis genes than in littermate control. Inhibition of β-AR largely abolishes the higher lipolytic and thermogenic activities in Oct3 KO adipocytes. Our results suggest that Oct3 regulates β-A-AR activity as a NE recycling transporter in white WAT, offering potential therapeutic applications for metabolic disorders.
The heterochromatin-enriched HP1 proteins play a critical role in regulation of transcription. These proteins contain two related domains known as the chromo- and the chromoshadow-domain. In vitro experiments have shown that the affinity of these proteins to native methylated chromatin is relatively poor and that the opening of chromatin occurring during DNA replication facilitates their binding to nucleosomes. These observations prompted us to investigate whether these proteins have additional histone binding activities, envisioning also affinity for regions potentially occluded by the nucleosome structure. We find that the chromosomal barrel of HP1 interacts with histone H3 in a region located partially inside the nucleotomal barrel at the entry/exit point of the nucleus. Interestingly, this region is also contacted by the catalytic subunits of the human SWI/SNF complex. In vivo, efficient SWI-SNF remodeling requires this contact and is inhibited in the presence of the HP1 protein. Finally, we provide evidence indicating that the antagonism between SWI and HP1 is also observed in vivo on a series of genes.
RNA molecules will tend to adopt a folded conformation through the pairing of bases on a single strand; the resulting so-called secondary structure is critical to the function of many types of RNA. The secondary structure of a particular substring of functional RNA may depend on its surrounding sequence. Yet, some RNAs such as microRNAs retain their specific structures during biogenesis, which involves extraction of the substructure from a larger structural context, while other functional RNAs may be composed of a fusion of independent substructures. We define the property of self containment to be the tendency for an RNA sequence to robustly adopt the same optimal secondary structure regardless of whether it exists in isolation or is a substring or a longer sequence of arbitrary nucleotide content. We show that miRNAs exhibit high self containment, consistent with the requirement for structural invariance imposed by the miRNA biogenesis pathway, while most other structured RNAs do not. Further analysis revealed a trend toward higher self containment among clustered and conserved miRNas. We propose that self containment arises out of selection for robustness against perturbations, invariance during the biogenesis process, and modular composition of structural function.
Pathogenic pathogens use a wide range of mechanisms to evade the host immune response. However, very few pathogens are capable of successfully colonizing a specific host, suggesting the existence of efficient recognition mechanisms to activate plant defenses. In this study, we identified four transcription factors ( TFs ) from Arabidopsis that limit pathogen spread. We identified several TFs that are important for disease susceptibility to Botrytis cinerea and Plectosphaerella cucumerina, and a general activation of non-immune host processes that contribute to plant disease susceptibility. The TFs and PROVIRs identified in our work thus represent novel genetic determinants for plant susceptibility to necrotrophic fungal pathogens.
Successful embryo implantation requires a receptive endometrium. Poor uterine receptivity can account for implantation failure in women who experience recurrent pregnancy loss or multiple rounds of unsuccessful in vitro fertilization cycles. Here, we demonstrate that the transcription factor Forkhead Box O1 ( FOXO1 ) is a critical regulator of endometrial receptivity in vivo. Uterine ablation of Foxo1 using the progesterone receptor Cre ( PgrCre ) mouse model resulted in infertility due to altered epithelial cell polarity and apoptosis, preventing the embryo from penetrating the luminal epithelium. The uterine epithelial cells that surround the blastocyst in the uterus undergo a decrease in epithelial polarity, as well as, a cell-shape transition from a columnar to cuboidal configuration approaching implantation, disappearing approximately 30 hours after the initiation of attachment. The reciprocal expression of PGR and FOXO 1 was conserved across the reproductive cycle in humans and in mice. This study demonstrates that expression of FOXO and the loss of Pgr during the window of receptivity are interrelated and critical for embryo implantations.
Dengue is a neglected tropical disease caused by the Aedes mosquito. It is transmitted by female Aedes mosquitoes. The disease can be fatal if not treated. The World Health Organization estimates that about 52% of the people at risk of dengue worldwide live in 10 countries of the WHO South-East Asia Region. Bangladesh, located in South Asia and surrounded by India and Myanmar, experienced its first epidemic in 2000. Since then cases have been reported every year, most commonly among adults and older children living in metropolitan cities. Heterogeneity in the distribution of hospitals across the country and differentials in treatment-seeking behaviour based on location are likely to cause under-reporting. However, despite no effective control program being introduced and no changes in surveillance until 2010 when serological confirmation was mandated for case reporting, nationally reported cases have declined since 2002. This might be partially attributable to increased prevalence of immunity and reduction in mosquito breeding sites resulting from public awareness.
When introduced into a novel environment, mammals establish in it a preferred place marked by the highest number of visits and highest cumulative time spent in it. The behavior performed in them—knot-scribbling—is enhanced by injecting the mouse with saline and placing it in an exposed portion of the arena. This behavior is enhanced by the injection of the mouse in the exposed portion, suggesting that stress and the arousal associated with it consolidate a long-term contingency between a particular locale and knot-scribbling. The rich vestibular input generated by scribbling could improve the interpretation of the visual scene.
Invasive fungal infections ( IFIs ) are life-threatening and associated with high mortality. Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus represent the major human fungal pathogens that have devastating effects on mostly, but not exclusively, immune compromised individuals such as HIV patients, premature infants, diabetics, chemotherapy patients, organ transplant recipients and aging people. Currently marketed drugs suffer from limited efficacy and bioavailability, narrow species spectrum and high toxicity and the development of novel drugs against fungal-selective protein targets is challenging due to the high evolutionary conservation between fungi and man. In this study, we used a high-throughput screening approach to identify a fungal Sec14p inhibitor, NGx04, as a potential target. We found that NGx4 inhibits the growth of two clinical isolates of C. neoforman and that NGX04-related compounds have equal and even higher potency against C. Neoformans. Furthermore, we found that the fungal sec14p-dependent virulence determinants are not conserved between the human and the fungillus proteins, supporting the use of this drug as an antifungal starting point.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease that exacerbates poverty. The treatment and control of schistosome infections relies on a single drug, praziquantel. However, the large-scale use of this drug might select for drug-resistant parasites, hence there is a need to develop new antischistosomal compounds. Here, we report that the antimalarial drug mefloquine possesses promising antischismosomal properties in mice. Oral administration of a single dose of a small dose of meflaquine ( 200 or 400 mg/kg ) to mice infected with adult Schistosoma mansoni or adult S. japonicum resulted in high or complete total and female worm burden reductions ( 72. 3%–100% ). Importantly, high worm burden reduction were also observed for young developing stages of S. mansoni and S. Japonicum harbored in the mouse. These results hold promise for the development of a novel antischisticosomal drug based on an aminoalcohol functionality. Further in vitro and in vivo studies have been launched to elucidate the possible mechanism of action and to study the effect of me floquine on S. haematobium and other trematodes.
Podoconiosis is a non-filarial elephantiasis, which causes massive swelling of the lower legs. It was identified as a neglected tropical disease by WHO in 2011. Understanding of the geographical distribution of the disease is incomplete. As part of a global mapping of podoconiosis, this study was conducted in Cameroon to determine the prevalence and distribution of Podoconiosis. The results of the study will help to generate data on the distribution and burden of podociosis in Cameroon and contribute to the global atlas.
Stem cells have an innate ability to occupy their stem cell niche, which in turn, is optimized to house stem cells. The mechanisms involved are poorly understood. Here, we report that Notch signaling is increased with age in Drosophila female germline stem cells ( GSCs ), and this results in their removal from the niche. Clonal analysis revealed that GSC with low levels of Notch activation in GSC is out-competing their neighbors with higher levels of notch; adhesiveness is altered through regulation of E-cadherin expression. Experimental enhancement of NotCH signaling in G SCs hastens their age-dependent loss from the GSC niche, and such loss is at least partially mediated by Sex. However, disruption of Notches signaling in the niche does not delay GSC loss during aging, and nor does it affect BMP signaling, which promotes self-renewal of GSC. Our findings reveal a novel role of Notching signaling in controlling GSC-niche adhesion in response to aging, in which Notch regulates niche integrity.
The human herpesviruses ( HHVs ) are large, enveloped viruses with double-stranded DNA genomes. Based on sequence homology and cellular tropisms, they are divided into three families, alpha, beta, and gamma. The alpha-herpesviruses are Herpes Simplex Virus type 1 ( HSV-1, HHV-2 ), and the gamma-Herpesvirus 5 ( HHV ). These viruses complete productive ( lytic ) replication cycles in epithelial cells, establish life-long latency in sensory neurons. They cause recurrent and sometimes painful skin lesions and, in rare cases, meningitis. In this study, we show that all the alpha- and gamma- Herpesviruses encode a kinase that phosphorylates the cellular retinoblastoma ( Rb ) tumor suppressor and lamin A/C proteins that are also substrates of cellular cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ). Interestingly, we found that all of the beta and gamma proteins displayed Cdk-like activity, but none of the alpha proteins showed Cdk activity. Thus, the genomic and evolutionary conservation of these kinases has not been fully maintained at the functional level.
Melioidosis, a community-acquired infectious disease caused by the environmental Gram-negative bacillus Burkholderia pseudomallei, is endemic in many tropical countries. Defining the global pattern of B. pseudomlei distribution underpins efforts to prevent infection, and is dependent upon robust environmental sampling methodology. We reviewed the literature on the detection of environmental B. Pseomalleis, update the risk map for melioidotic, and propose international consensus guidelines for soil sampling. We found that global coverage was patchy, with a lack of studies in many areas, and not all were robust. We developed consensus guidelines with the goals of reducing the probability of false-negative results, and the provision of affordable and ‘low-tech’ methodology that is applicable in both developed and developing countries. The proposed consensus guidelines provide the basis for the development of an accurate and comprehensive global map of environmental Burkholderia.
Viruses are insect-borne agents with positive-strand RNA genomes packaged into compact particles, about 500 Å in diameter. Their fusion protein, known as E, is made as part of a polyprotein, designated prM ( precursor of M ), which includes a “chaperone” protein, prM. The E protein undergoes a large-scale conformational rearrangement that involves dissociation of the dimer interface and reconfiguration of the subunits into trimers. We find that peptides derived from the stem of dengue-virus E bind stem-less E trimer, which models a conformational intermediate. In vitro assays demonstrate that these peptides specifically block viral fusion. The peptides inhibit infectivity with potency proportional to their affinity for the conformational intermedi, even when free peptide is removed from a preincubated inoculum before infecting cells. Our data support and extend proposed mechanisms for how the E conformational change promotes membrane fusion, suggest strategies for inhibiting flavivirus entry.
Cholera is a major public health problem in developing countries. Cholera outbreaks can rapidly induce high death tolls by overwhelming the capacity of health facilities, especially in remote areas or areas of civil unrest. Recent studies demonstrated that stool specimens preserved on filter paper facilitate molecular analysis of Vibrio cholerae in resource limited settings. We demonstrated that dried specimen spotted filter papers can be stored for up to 2 years at room temperature prior to DNA extraction and PCR amplification. The genomic data confirmed the presence or absence of genes of epidemiological interest, including cholera toxin and pilus loci. This provided valuable molecular epidemiological sequence information on V. cholera strains from remote, low-resource settings, highlighting the potential for this technique to explore the gut microbiome, potentially identifying co-infections, which may impact the severity of disease.
Epithelial cells have distinct apical and basolateral membrane domains, each of which contains a unique complement of lipids and proteins to regionalize cellular functions. Although the mechanisms that specify apico–basal polarity have been a topic of great interest in recent years, there are still many open questions about how this cell architecture is established and maintained. Here we show that Dynein is required for the apical targeting of specific sdt mRNA isoforms. We have mapped the mRNA localization signal to an alternatively spliced coding exon. Intriguingly, the presence or absence of this exon corresponds to a developmental switch in sdt transcript localization in which apical transcripts are only found during early stages of epithelial development, while unlocalized transcripts predominate in mature epithelia. This work represents the first demonstration of Dyneins as an essential regulator of epithelial polarity and suggests that mRNA localization may have a functional role in the regulation of apico-basal organization. Moreover, we introduce a unique mechanism in which alternative splicing of a coding exons is used to control mRNA localization during development.
Leishmania is a digenetic parasite that can cause several zoonotic diseases in poor and developing countries. The mode of reproduction in Leishmania spp has been argued to be essentially clonal. However, recent data ( genetic analysis of populations and co-infections in sand flies ) have proposed the existence of a non-obligate sexual cycle in the extracellular stage of the parasite within the sand fly vector. In this article we propose the presence of intraclonal genetic exchange in the natural vector of Leishmania infantum. We have developed transgenic L. infantum lines expressing drug resistance markers linked to green and red fluorescent reporters. We hypothesized whether those cells with identical genotype can recognize each other and mate. The hybrid progeny were successfully exchanged within the midgut of the natural sand fly. The yellow phenotype and drug resistance marker markers were successfully expressed in the hybrid clone, which suggests the ability of this parasite to perform recombination between the same genotype and mate during the parasite life cycle. A hybrid lineage was obtained from intraclagenic exchange within the larval stages of the larva of the sand flies. This hybrid lineage is stable throughout the whole life cycle but with a slower virulence, which correlates well with the lower arginase activity detected in vitro and in vivo infections.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) caused by Leishmania donovani is a major health problem in Ethiopia. Parasites in disparate regions are transmitted by different vectors, and cluster in distinctive genotypes. Recently isolated strains from VL and HIV-VL co-infected patients in north and south Ethiopia were characterized as part of a longitudinal study on VL transmission. Sixty-three strains were examined by polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) targeting three regions: internal transcribed spacer 1 ( ITS1 ), cysteine protease B ( cpb ), and HASPB ( k26 ). The PCR amplicon size varied depending on the patient's geographic origin. Most strains from northwestern Ethiopia produced a 290 bp product with a minority ( 4/40 ) giving a 410 bp amplicon. All of the latter strains were isolated from patients with HIV-V co- Infections, while the former group contained both VL, HIV-L co- infected patients. The k26 repeat region in L. donovan is comprised of polymorphic 13 and 14 amino acid motifs. The number and order of the repeats in L. donovANI varies between geographic regions. HASPB repeat region ( k 26 ) shows considerable polymorphism among L. Donovani strains from different regions in East Africa. This should be taken into account when designing diagnostic assays and vaccines based on this antigen.
Recombinant HIV-1 genomes contribute significantly to the diversity of variants within the HIV/AIDS pandemic. It is assumed that some of these mosaic genomes may have novel properties that have led to their prevalence, particularly in the case of the circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ). To test this hypothesis, we generate a probabilistic model to describe the expected distribution of recombination breakpoints across the HIV genome. We find that the distribution of breakpoints—the identifiable boundaries that delimit the mosaic structure—will deviate from the underlying null distribution. We infer natural selection to be influencing the recombination pattern. The paucity of recombinants with breakpoints within most of the envelope gene indicates that most of these recombination breaks are less likely to be successful. Our results strongly indicate that, despite the wide diversity of recombinant form seen in the viral population, only a minority of recombinating events appear to be of significance to the evolution of HIV. Our findings thus provide the first clear indication of the existence of a specific portion of the genome that deviates from the probabilistically null model.
Computational modeling plays an important role in modern neuroscience research. Much previous research has relied on statistical methods, separately, to address two problems that are actually interdependent. First, given a particular computational model, Bayesian hierarchical techniques have been used to estimate individual variation in parameters over a population of subjects, leveraging their population-level distributions. Second, candidate models are themselves compared, and individual variations in the expressed model estimated, according to the fits of the models to each subject. The interdependence between these two problems arises because the relevant population for estimating parameters of a model depends on which other subjects express the model. Here, we propose a hierarchical Bayesian inference ( HBI ) framework for concurrent model comparison, parameter estimation and inference at the population level, combining previous approaches. We show that this framework has important advantages for both parameter estimation, model comparison theoretically and experimentally. Model comparison by HBI is robust against outliers and is not biased towards overly simplistic models. Furthermore, the fully Bayesian approach of our theory enables researchers to make inference on group-level parameters by performing HBI t-test.
The mammalian brainstem plays a crucial role in the regulation of many vital functions through a complex system of reflex arcs and relays information to higher brain centers through interconnected neuronal circuits. The auditory central pathway consists of sensory nuclei transmitting ascending acoustic information, and efferent motor neurons modulating primary afferent responses. In this study, we show that r4 contributes to functionally linked sensory and motor components, including the ventral nucleus of lateral lemniscus, posterior ventral cochlear nuclei ( VCN ), and motor olivocochlear neurons. Assembly of the r4-derived auditory components is involved in sound perception and depends on regulatory interactions between Hoxb1 and Hoxa2. Indeed, in Hox b1 mutants, the transmission of low-level auditory stimuli is lost, resulting in hearing impairments. On the other hand, Hox1 regulates the Rig1 axon guidance receptor and controls contralateral projections from the anterior VCN to the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body. Thus, individual rhombomeres and their associated Hox codes control the assembly of distinct functionally segregated sub-circuits in the developing auditory brainstem.
The marine bacterium Saccharophagus degradans strain 2-40 is emerging as a vanguard of a recently discovered group of marine and estuarine bacteria that recycles complex polysaccharides. We report its complete genome sequence, analysis of which identifies an unusually large number of enzymes that degrade >10 complex polycharides in the marine environment. Not only is this an extraordinary range of catabolic capability, many of the enzymes exhibit unusual architecture including novel combinations of catalytic and substrate-binding modules. We hypothesize that many of these features are adaptations that facilitate depolymerization of complex polysides in marine environment, an important component of the carbon cycle that is not well-characterized. This is the first sequenced genome of a bacterium that can degrade plant cell walls, an essential component of carbon cycle, and is not known in the environment. We propose that the unusual enrichment in membrane-bound transcription factors is an adaptive strategy for detecting extracellular complex polysccharides and expressing genes necessary for its degradation.
Japanese Encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a zoonotic flavivirus that represents the most significant etiology of childhood viral neurological infections throughout the Asia. During the last 20 years, JEV genotype dominance has shifted from genotype III ( GIII ) to genotype I ( GI ). To date, the exact mechanism of this displacement is still not known. Culex ( Cx. ) mosquitoes are the most common species in China and play an essential role in maintaining JEV enzootic transmission cycle. In this study, we used Cx. pipiens mosquitoes from China as an in vivo mosquito model to explore if mosquitoes played a potential role in JEV Genotype shift. We found that both GI and GIII viruses have similar infectivity in Cx, with similar infection rates and growth kinetics. After the establishment of infection, both JEV strains were disseminated to secondary organs at similar rates of dissemination. A few GI-infected mosquito salivary glands ( 16. 2% ) were positive for GI virus, whereas GIII virus was undetectable in GIII-infection salivaries at 7 dpi, showing an increase in Jev positive rate. Our experiment data demonstrated that GI and GI viruses have the same infectivity, growth kinetic, dissemination rate and transmission rate, suggesting that Cx and GV mosquitoes may not play a critical role in the role of mosquitoes in J EV genotype shift, suggesting the potential of Cx species for transmission of both genotype viruses.
Dengue infection is the fastest spreading mosquito-borne viral disease, which affects people living in the tropical and subtropical countries. Malaysia had large dengue outbreaks in recent years. We aimed to study the demographics and clinical characteristics associated with fatal dengues deaths in Malaysia. We conducted a retrospective review on all dengu deaths that occurred nationwide between 1st January 2013 and 31st December 2014. Relevant data were extracted from mortality review reports and investigational forms. These cases were categorized into children ( <15 years ), adults ( 15–59 years ) and elderly ( ≥60 years ) to compare their clinical characteristics. We found that children were more prone to develop severe organ involvement, followed by abdominal pain or tenderness and severe bleeding. More than half ( 54% ) had underlying co-morbid illness, and 20. 2% were free from any organ involvement. Dengue shock syndrome ( DSS ) was the leading cause of death, regardless of age groups. The atypical presentation and dynamic progression of severe dengued in this cohort prompts early recognition and aggressive intervention to prevent deaths.
Mates choose their mates so as to maximize reproductive success, and one important component of this choice is assessment of traits reflecting mate quality. Little is known about why specific traits are used for mate quality assessment nor about how they reflect it. We have previously shown that global manipulation of insulin signaling, a nutrient-sensing pathway governing investment in survival versus reproduction, affects female sexual attractiveness in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Here we demonstrate that these effects on attractiveness derive from insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells, whose signals are integrated by pheromone-producing cells called oenocytes. Functional ovaries were required for global insulin signaling effects on female attractiveness, and manipulations of insulin in late follicle cell recapitulated effects of global manipulations. Interestingly, modulation of insulin signals in the Fat body produced opposite effects of attractiveness, suggesting a competitive relationship with the ovary. Furthermore, all investigated tissue-specific insulin signaling manipulations that changed attractiveness also changed fecundity in the corresponding direction, providing a mechanism through which information from the outside can be integrated with internal state. Future identification of the molecule ( s ) carrying attractiveness signals among tissues and understanding how they are influenced by internal and external perturbations will help reveal nature of sexual communication and stimulate new insights into how animals may evolve to cheat.
The Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) epidemic in West Africa in 2013–2015 spread heterogeneously across the three hardest-hit countries Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone and the estimation of national transmission of EVD provides little information about local dynamics. To investigate district-level transmissibility of the EVD epidemic, we applied a statistical modelling approach to estimate the basic reproduction number ( R0 ) for each affected district and each country using weekly incident case numbers. We estimated the R0 based on the predicted individual growth rates and the reported serial interval distribution. At district level, R0 ranged from 0. 36 ( Dubréka ) to 1. 72 ( Beyla ) in Guinea, from 3. 37 ( Margibi ) in Liberia and from 1. 14 ( Koinadugu ) to 2. 73 ( Western Rural ) in Sierra Leone. At national level, we estimated an R0 of 0. 97 for Guinea, 1. 26 ( 95% CI 0. 98–1. 55 ) for Liberia and 1. 66 for Sierra Leone, suggesting that the consequences of fast urban growth in West African may have contributed to the increased spread of the disease.
Proteins evolve faster than other organisms, and this is due to the fact that the protein's three-dimensional structure is mostly formed by buried residues, which often play a crucial role in the stability of the folded structure. In fact, most mutations in the core of a protein tend to destabilize the protein. Therefore, there has been longstanding interest in deciphering the causes of this variation, with a large literature of theoretical and empirical studies alike. In this work, we investigated the interplay between structural properties and evolutionary rate, as determinants of protein evolution. We found that older proteins are more stable for their native structure, and more robust to mutations, than younger ones. However, age also plays a crucial factor: age modulates the relationship between solvent accessibility and rate. Additionally, younger proteins, despite being less designable, tend to evolve faster. Our results reinforce the idea that protein evolution is not explained by a single determinant, but rather by the interaction of many determinants, including even factors that are not intrinsic to the present-day protein but depend on evolutionary age.
The developmental plasticity of early embryos and embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) requires the repression of cell-type specific genes. Two multiprotein complexes that participate in gene repression are Polycomb repressive complex 1 ( PRC1 ) and Polycomb repression complex 2 ( PR2 ). Core components of PRC2 include Suz12, Eed, and Ezh2, a methyltransferase that participates in di- and tri-methylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 ( H3K27me3 ). Polycomb-like 3 ( Pcl3 ) is expressed in ESCs, but it has been unclear how it contributes to ESC self-renewal and ESC biology. Here, we show that mouse Pcl2 interacts with the core components of the PRC3 complex and promotes complex function. We show that Pcl1 co-localizes with PRC 2 core component, Suz12 and depletion of Pcl4 decreases Suz12 binding at over 60% of ESC targets. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the Tudor domain, a domain implicated in recognizing methylated histones, compromises H3k27me2 formation, suggesting that PCL3 is an important regulator of ESC function. Thus, we propose that the role of Polycomb–like 3 in PRC-2 function is critical to elucidating gene misregulation during development.
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is an ideal system to identify transcriptional mechanisms underlying chemoreceptor gene regulation in specific chemosensory neurons. Here, we show that the MEF-2 transcription factor acts together with basic helix-loop-helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors to regulate srh-234 expression as a function of feeding state. We show that MEF2 acts together in ADL sensory neurons to regulate the expression of the chemoreceptor gene, srsx-234. We further show that a MEF1 binding site is necessary and sufficient for starvation-induced down regulation of srs-234, while an E-box motif in close proximity of the MEFs-2 site is required to direct srh_234 expression. We also show that this intestine-to-neuron feeding-state regulation is dependent on insulin-like peptides. These results combined suggest that chemorereceptor gene expression is regulated by both cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomy transcriptional factors, which may allow animals to fine-tune their chemosensor responses in response to changes in their feeding state in order to optimize their food search strategy.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a destructive skin condition caused by infection with the environmental bacterium, Mycobacterium ulcerans. The mode of transmission of M. ulceran is not completely understood, but several studies have explored the role of biting insects. In this study, we tested for an association between the detection of M. ulcerins in mosquitoes and the risk of BU disease in humans in an endemic area of southeastern Australia. Adult mosquitoes were trapped in seven towns on the Bellarine Peninsula in Victoria, Australia, from December 2004 to December 2009 and screened for M. Ulcerans by real-time PCR. The number of laboratory-confirmed cases of BU in permanent residents of these towns diagnosed during the same period was tallied to determine the average cumulative incidence of BU. We found a strong dose-response relationship between the presence of M, ulcerants in mosquitoes in humans and the incidence of human disease. This study has implications for the development of intervention strategies to control and prevent BU.
Myelin is an essential component of the nervous tissue of higher vertebrates. It acts as a natural insulator of axonal segments allowing, at the same time, the maintenance of axon integrity and the fast conduction of action potentials. In the central nervous system ( CNS ), myelin is produced by oligodendrocytes, while in the peripheral nervous system, this function is achieved by Schwann cells. In adult life, myelination requires a careful balance of de novo synthesis and turnover. It is quite clear that any event generating an imbalance in the myelin or myelin turnover has the greatest chance of inducing dys- or demyelination of either the central or peripheral nervous systems. Our knowledge of this process has benefited from careful observations conducted on human patients affected by one of the many defects of myelin. We report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelin breakdown.
Microarray based gene expression signatures hold great promise to improve diagnosis and prognosis of disease. However, current documentation standards of such signatures do not allow for an unambiguous application to study-external patients. This hinders independent evaluation, effectively delaying the use of signatures in clinical practice. In this study, we analyzed eight publicly available clinical microarray studies and the consistency of study-internal with study-External diagnoses was evaluated. Study-external classifications were based on documented information only. Documenting a signature is conceptually different from reporting a list of genes contributing to the classification rule. We show that even the exact quantitative specification of a classification rule alone does not define a signature unambiguously. We propose guidelines and methodology for building and documenting signatures unambigually.
A key component of the bacterial biofilm is the amyloid fibril, which is secreted by Escherichia coli. The amyloids are secreted from the bacteria, and their fibrils mediate host cell adhesion and contribute to biofilm formation, thereby promoting bacterial resistance to environmental stressors. Here, we present crystal structures of the major curli subunit, CsgA, revealing steric zipper fibrillar structures of tightly mated β-sheets, demonstrating a structural link between curli and human pathological amylids. D-enantiomeric peptides, originally developed to interfere with Alzheimer’s disease-associated amylid-β, inhibited CsrA fibrillation and reduced biofilm-forming in Salmonella typhimurium. Moreover, as previously shown, the csgA subunits cross-seeded fibrillary fibrilli, providing support for the proposed structural resemblance and potential for cross-species interactions. The presented findings provide structural insights into amylinogenic regions important for curli formation, suggest a novel strategy for disrupting amyloidal-structured biofilms, and hypothesize on the formation of self-propagating prion-like species originating from a microbial source that could influence neurodegenerative diseases.
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a vector-borne disease that is endemic in most of Asia. The epidemiology of JEV in the Philippines is not well defined. To support consideration of JE vaccine for introduction into the national schedule in the country, we conducted a systematic literature review on JE surveillance and the Philippines in four databases and one library. We analyzed all available data from JE Surveillance and the national reference laboratory from January 2011 to March 2014. JE was the causative agent in 7% to 18% of cases of clinical meningitis and deworming combined, and 16% to 40% of clinical encephalititis cases. The case fatality rate found in this review, 6–7%, is lower than the estimated rate of up to 30%. This comprehensive review demonstrates the endemicity and extensive geographic range of JEE in the Philippine, and supports the use of JJE vaccine in the national immunization programme. Continued and improved surveillance with laboratory confirmation is needed to systematically quantify the burden of the disease, to provide information that can guide prioritization of high risk areas in the Country and determination of appropriate age and schedule of vaccine introduction, and to measure the impact of preventive measures including immunization against this important public health threat.
Genetic robustness is the invariance of phenotypes in the face of genetic perturbations. The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions, due to intrinsic factors such as metabolic requirements, or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturations. Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions. Here, we present the first large-scale computational study charting the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments. We provide evidence that variations among species in their level of metabolic robustness reflect ecological adaptations. We decouple metabolic responses into two components and quantify the extents of each: the first, environmental-dependent, is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle ( specialized/generalist ) ; the second, environmental independent, is associated ( correlation = ∼0. 6 ) with the intrinsic metabolic capacities of a species. Finally, we identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to perturbation in human pathogens, potentially serving as novel drug-targets.
Schistosoma infection is associated with immune modulation that can influence responses to non-schistosome antigens. Vaccine responses may be impaired in S. mansoni-infected individuals. We investigated the effect of S mansoni infection on responses to childhood measles catch-up immunisation and of praziquantel treatment on this outcome in a randomised trial. We found that S. Mansoni infection among pre-school children is associated, among several others, with a reduced antibody response to measles immunisation, and that treatment of S. mansoni with prazifantel improves the response. S. manoni infection may contribute to impaired vaccine responses in endemic populations; effective schistosomiasis control may be beneficial for vaccine efficacy.
The evolution of bacterial populations has recently become considerably better understood due to large-scale sequencing of population samples. It has become clear that DNA sequences from a multitude of genes, as well as a broad sample coverage of a target population, are needed to obtain a relatively unbiased view of its genetic structure and the patterns of ancestry connected to the strains. However, the traditional statistical methods for evolutionary inference, such as phylogenetic analysis, are associated with several difficulties under such an extensive sampling scenario, in particular when a considerable amount of recombination is anticipated to have taken place. We introduce here several statistical tools for the detection and representation of genetic recombination between populations. Also, we introduce a model-based description of the shape of a population in sequence space, in terms of its molecular variability and affinity towards other populations. Extensive real data from the genus Neisseria are utilized to demonstrate the potential of an approach where these population genetic tools are combined with an phylogenetic analyses. The statistical tools introduced here are freely available in BAPS 5. 2 software, which can be downloaded from http://web. abo. fi/fak/mnf/mate/jc/software/baps. html.
Cortical rhythms have been thought to play crucial roles in our cognitive abilities. Rhythmic activity in the beta frequency band, around 20 Hz, has been reported in recent studies that focused on neural correlates of attention, indicating that top-down beta rhythms, generated in higher cognitive areas and delivered to earlier sensory areas, can support attentional gain modulation. To elucidate functional roles of beta rhythms and underlying mechanisms, we built a computational model of sensory cortical areas. Our simulation results show that top down beta rhythms can activate ascending synaptic projections from L5 to L4 and L2/3, responsible for biased competition in superficial layers. In the simulation, slow-inhibitory interneurons are shown to resonate to the 20 Hz input and modulate the activity in superficial cortical layers in an attention-related manner. The predicted critical roles of these cells in attentional control provide a potential mechanism by which cholinergic drive can support selective attention.
Stochastic transmission dynamic models are especially useful for studying the early emergence of novel pathogens given the importance of chance events when the number of infectious individuals is small. However, methods for parameter estimation and prediction for these types of stochastic models remain limited. In this manuscript, we describe a calibration and prediction framework for stochastically compartmental transmission models of epidemics. The proposed method, Multiple Shooting for Stochastic systems ( MSS ), applies a linear noise approximation to describe the size of the fluctuations, and uses each new surveillance observation to update the belief about the true epidemic state. Using simulated outbreaks of a novel viral pathogen, we evaluate the accuracy of MSS for real-time parameter estimation. We show that MSS produces accurate estimates of key epidemic parameters ( i. e. mean duration of infectiousness, R0, and Reff ) and can provide an accurate estimate of the unobserved number of infected individuals during the course of an epidemic. MSS also allows for accurate prediction of the number and timing of future hospitalizations and the overall attack rate.
The content of visual perception is strongly permeated by information lingering from the past. From moment to moment, human perception is not a high-fidelity replica of sensory input but relies heavily on past experience and short-term dependencies: what happened a moment ago has a strong impact on how we perceive the present. We propose a unified account of serial dependence in which functionally distinct mechanisms, operating at different stages, promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time. This is consistent with a Two-process model of serial dependency in which the persistence of readout weights in a decision unit compensates for sensory adaptation, leading to attractive biases in sequential perception. Our work provides a new perspective on the history of sensory and decisional processes by reconciling opposite forms of long-term dependency into a unified view of concatenated perception and decision-making.
Circadian rhythms are widespread in nature and help to maintain internal temporal order as well as anticipate daily environmental changes. They use self-sustained biochemical oscillators that generate oscillations at the molecular, physiological, and behavioral levels. In eukaryotic systems, a large fraction of mRNAs, perhaps 10% or more, undergoes circadian transcription ( e. g., mRNA ). Circadian transcriptional oscillations contribute to myriad physiological and behavioral outputs in diverse tissues of eukarya. Recent data from humans, mice, and flies indicate that numerous syndromes and even pathologies result from a disruption of these daily oscillations. To address the role of transcription in core circadian timekeeping in the Drosophila system, we have analyzed the effects of a CYC–viral protein 16 ( VP16 ) fusion protein on the circadian transcriptional activator. VP16 imparts to the CLK–CYC-VP16 complex strongly enhanced transcriptional activity relative to that of CLK-CYC. This increase is manifested in flies expressing CYC and in S2 cells. These flies also have increased levels of CLNK–CY direct target gene mRNas, implicating circadian transcription in period determination. These results suggest that the timing of transcriptional activation and not the activation itself is the key event responsible for the behavioral effects observed in CYC-VP 16-expressing flies. The results taken together indicate that circadian transcription contributes to core circadian function in the mammalian system.
Horizontal gene transfer can endow bacteria with new abilities, such as the ability to resist killing by an antibiotic or to gain access to a host cell. However, other horizontally acquired genes operate on ancestral cellular pathways, raising questions as to the changes experienced both by the horizontally acquired DNA and the host bacterial genome that enable an organism to realize the fitness gains mediated by the acquired sequences. Here, we demonstrate that the vertically acquired pmrD gene product activates the ancestral PmrA/PmrB two-component system in Salmonella enterica but not in the closely related bacterium Escherichia coli. We now show that the E. coli PmrD protein binds to the phosphorylated PmrB protein, protecting it from dephosphorylation by the PmrP-activated protein. This results in transcription of genes conferring polymyxin B resistance. We also show that replacement of the E. coli pmrB gene with the Salmonellis homolog is sufficient to restore transcription of PmrC-activated genes and polymyxia-inducing resistance to the antibiotic polymyyxin B. Our findings provide a singular example whereby quantitative differences in the biochemical activities of orthologous ancestral proteins dictate the ability of a horizontally acquired gene product to confer species-specific traits.
The differentiation process of embryonic stem cells is initiated by a gradual loss of pluripotency-associated transcripts and induction of differentiation genes. Accordingly, the detection of differentially expressed genes at the early stages of differentiation could assist the identification of the causal genes that either promote or inhibit differentiation. The previous methods of identifying differentially expressing genes by comparing different cell types would inevitably include a large portion of genes that respond to, rather than regulate, the differentiation process. We demonstrate through the use of biological replicates and a novel statistical approach that the gene expression data obtained without prior separation of cell types are informative for detecting differentially expression genes at early stage of differentiation. Applying the proposed method to analyze the differentiation of murine embryonic stem ( ES ) cells, we identified and then experimentally verified Smarcad1 as a novel regulator of pluricotency and self-renewal. We formalized this statistical approach as a statistical test that is generally applicable to analyze other differentiation processes.
The function of many genes is not known and their classification to pathways is scant. As the function of genes is unknown and their classifications to pathways are scant, functional associations between genes are often inferred from large-scale omics data. Such data types—including protein–protein interactions and gene co-expression networks—are used to examine the interrelations of the implicated genes. Statistical significance is assessed by comparing the interconnectedness of the mutated genes with that of random gene sets. However, interconnectedness can be affected by confounding bias, potentially resulting in false positive findings. We show that genes implicated through de novo sequence variants are biased in their coding-sequence length and longer genes tend to cluster together, which leads to exaggerated p-values in functional studies. We present here an integrative method that addresses these bias. To discern molecular pathways relevant to complex disease, we have inferred functional associations among human genes from diverse data types and assessed them with a novel phenotype-based method. Examining the functional association between gene variants, we control for the heretofore unexplored confounding bias. We find that the disease-associated genes cluster more significantly in an integrated phenotypic-linkage network than in other gene networks. This study demonstrates the suitability of this method to functionally cluster variant genes underlying polygenic disorders.
In January 2014, the Mexican government implemented an 8% tax on nonessential foods with energy density ≥275 kcal/100 g and a peso-per-liter tax on sugar-sweetened beverages ( SSBs ). Limited rigorous evaluations of food taxes exist worldwide. The objective of this study was to examine changes in volume of taxed and untaxed packaged food purchases in response to these taxes in the entire sample and stratified by socioeconomic status ( SES ). We included 6, 248 households that participated in the Nielsen CPS in at least 2 mo during 2012–2014; average household follow-up was 32. 7 mo. We analyzed the volume of purchases of taxed foods from January 2012 to December 2014, using a longitudinal, fixed-effects model that adjusted for preexisting trends to test whether the observed post-tax trend was significantly different from the one expected based on the pre-tax trends. We found that the mean volume of purchased taxed foods in 2014 changed by -25 g ( 95% confidence interval = -46, -11 ) per capita per month, or a 5. 1% change beyond what would have been expected, with no corresponding change in purchases of nonessential energy-dense foods. Low SES households purchased on average 10. 2% less taxed foods than expected ( -44 g per capita ), whereas high Ses households purchased 5. 8% less tax foods. Our results show that the taxes were implemented at the national level ( lack of control group ), and, as with any consumer panel survey, we did not capture all foods purchased by the household. Future studies should evaluate the impact of the taxes on overall energy intake, dietary quality, and food purchase patterns ( see S1 Abstract in Spanish ).
In the nervous system, noise is ubiquitous and ineluctable. In the visual system, for instance, photons arrive at the retina according to a Poisson process, giving rise to photon noise. The retinal photoreceptors absorb the photons by converting their energy into a chemical signal. The chemical signal is then amplified and transduced into an electrical signal. This process introduces transduction noise, which adds further cellular, electrical, or synaptic noise. Here we present a biophysically plausible model of collision-sensitive neurons with η-like response properties, in which we assume that each information channel is noisy and has a response threshold. Then, an approximative power law is obtained as a result of pooling these channels. We show that with this mechanism one can successfully predict many response characteristics of the Lobula Giant Movement Detector ( LGMD ) neuron of the locust. Moreover, the results depend critically on noise in the inhibitory pathway, but they are fairly robust against the excitatory pathway.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a common mycobacterial infection that occurs primarily in poor and remote parts of the country. The national BU control programme ( NBUCP ) was established in 2002. The objective was to describe the evolution, achievements, and challenges of the national programme and to make suggestions for scaling up the programme. We analysed collated data on BU from 2001 to 2014 and reviewed activity reports NBU CP in Cameroon. Case-detection rates and key BU control indicators were calculated and plotted on a time scale to determine trends in performance. A linear regression analysis of BU detection rate from 2005–2014 was done. The regression coefficient was tested statistically for the significance in variation of BU detected cases by PCR. In 14 years of BU control, 3700 cases were notified. The detection rate dropped significantly from 3. 89 to 1. 45 per 100 000 inhabitants. The number of BU endemic health districts rose from two to 64. Five BU diagnostic and treatment centres are functional and two more are planned for 2015. The health system has been strengthened and BU research and education has gained more interest in Cameroon, although institutional BU control Cameroon only began 30 years after the first cases were reported in 1969, a number of milestones have been attained. These would serve as stepping stones for charting the way forward and improving upon control activities in the country if the major challenge of resource allocation is dealt with.
The ability to correctly estimate the probability of one’s choices being correct is fundamental to optimally re-evaluate previous choices or to arbitrate between different decision strategies. Experimental evidence nonetheless suggests that this metacognitive process—confidence judgment- is susceptible to numerous biases. Here, we investigate the effect of outcome valence ( gains or losses ) on confidence while participants learned stimulus-outcome associations by trial-and-error. In two experiments, participants were more confident in their choices when learning to seek gains compared to avoiding losses, despite equal difficulty and performance between those two contexts. Computational modelling revealed that this bias is driven by the context-value, a dynamically updated estimate of the average expected-value of choice options, necessary to explain equal performance in the gain and loss domains. The biasing effect of context- value on confidence, revealed here for the first time in a reinforcement-learning context, is therefore domain-general, with likely important functional consequences. We show that one such consequence emerges in volatile environments, where the ( in ) flexibility of individuals’ learning strategies differs when outcomes are framed as gains or loss. Despite apparent similar behavior- profound asymmetries might therefore exist between learning to avoid losses and learning to gain gains.
Alphaviruses are enveloped positive-strand RNA viruses with a 5′ capped and 3′ polyadenylated genome of approximately 11. 5 kb. They are capable of causing serious disease in humans and domestic animals, which can also spill over to infect humans with potentially lethal consequences. Alphavirus RNA replication takes place in small membrane invaginations that protrude from the inner surface of the host cell plasma membrane and from the outer surface of endosomes and lysosomes. The replication complexes contain as essential components the virus-encoded nonstructural proteins nsP1-nsP4 and nsP2, which arise through cleavage from a polyprotein precursor P1234. NsP3 is a conserved protein domain that is involved in viral RNA synthesis, and has been previously shown to be involved in the Src-homology 3 ( SH3 ) domains of amphiphysin-1 and -2. In this study we show that the SH3 binding motifs of nsP3 are conserved among alphaviral nsPs3 proteins, and that the interaction with amphiphymes is mediated by the SH2 domain. Mutations in the SH1 domain of nsPS3 lead to reduced virus replication in cell culture and attenuated pathogenicity in infected mice.
Chromoblastomycosis is one of the most frequent implantation mycoses found among rural populations. Clinically, the disease is characterized by pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia with epidermal microabscesses and dermal granulomata. The disease has a slow evolution, but finally may result in disfigurement of affected body sites. The present study evaluates the diversity of agents in endemic areas of Brazil based on multilocus sequence data, clinical aspects, direct mycological examination and culture. An enumeration of currently proven cases with molecular support in Brazil is provided.
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) is an essential signaling pathway that detects DNA lesions, which constantly occur upon either endogenous or exogenous assaults, and maintains genetic integrity. An infection by an invading pathogen is one such assault, but how bacteria impact the cellular DDR is poorly documented. Here, we report that infection with Listeria monocytogenes induces host DNA breaks. Strikingly, the signature response to these breaks is only moderately activated. We uncover the role of the listerial toxin listeriolysin O ( LLO ) in blocking the signaling response to DNA breaks through degradation of the sensor Mre11. Knocking out or inactivating proteins involved in the DDR promotes bacterial replication showing the importance of this mechanism for the control of infection. Together, our data highlight that bacterial dampening of the DDR is critical for a successful listeria infection.
Herpes simplex virus-1 and -2 are common pathogens of human diseases. Both host and viral factors are involved in HSV lytic infection, although detailed mechanisms remain elusive. By screening a chemical library of epigenetic regulation, we identified bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) as a critical player in HSHV infection. We show that treatment with pan BD domain inhibitor enhanced both HSV infection and JQ1 effect. We found that JQ 1, a defined BD1 inhibitor, acts through BRD 4 protein since knockdown of BRD1 expression ablated JQ-1 effect on HSV replication. BRD2 regulates HSV-1 infection by allocating the complex to HSV gene promoters. Therefore, suppression of BRd4 expression or inhibition of CDK9 activity impeded HSV infections. Our data support a model that J Q1 enhances HSV by switching from chromatin targeting to transcription regulation of viral gene expression from chromatophagy. BRDR4 is a modulator for JQ2 action on HSHHV.
Noma, or cancrum oris, is a devastating oral-lesion disease that is thought to have a microbial origin in the context of poor immune function. The cause of noma is still elusive. A chaotic mix of microbial infection, oral hygiene and weakened immune system likely contribute to the development of oral lesions. These lesions are a plausible entry point for unidentified microorganisms that trigger gangrenous facial infections. To catalog bacteria present in noma lesions and identify candidate noma-triggering organisms, we performed a cross-sectional sequencing study of 16S rRNA gene amplicons from sixty samples of gingival fluid from twelve healthy children, twelve children suffering from noma ( lesion and healthy sites ) and twelve children with Acute Necrotizing Gingivitis ( ANG ). Samples taken from lesions in diseased mouths were enriched with Spirochaetes and depleted for Proteobacteria, with proportions similar to healthy control individuals. Microbial communities sampled from lesions were dominated by the same Prevotella intermedia OTU, which was much less abundant in healthy sites sampled from the same mouths. Multivariate analysis confirmed that bacterial communities in healthy and lesion sites were significantly different. Several OTUs in the Orders Erysipelotrichales, Clostridiales, Bacteroidales, and Spirochales were identified as indicators of nomA, suggesting that one or more microbes within these Orders is associated with the development and development of the lesions. This catalog will eventually serve as a powerful comparative tool for future longitudinal studies.
Bacteria use quorum sensing to coordinate adaptation properties, cell fate or commitment to sporulation. The infectious cycle of Bacillus thuringiensis in the insect host is a powerful model to investigate the role of quorum-sensing in natural conditions. It is tuned by communication systems regulators belonging to the RNPP family and directly regulated by re-internalized signaling peptides. One such RNPP regulator, NprR, acts in the presence of its cognate signaling peptide NprX as a transcription factor, regulating a set of genes involved in the survival of these bacteria. Here, we demonstrate that, in the absence of the transcriptional activator function of NprRs, the transcription factor is negatively affected by the binding of the Nprx-binding domain to the phosphotransferase Spo0F, thus delaying the initiation of the sporulation process. We propose a molecular mechanism in which key residues of the bifunctional regulator Nprr are directly and alternatively involved in its two functions. Nprox binding switches Npr R from a dimeric inhibitor of sporulation to a transcriptional regulator. This switch from an indirect sporulation inhibitor function to a gene-regulating activator functions is due to a second regulatory function, independent of its transcriptional activity. This mechanism thus tightly coordinates sporulation and necrotrophism.
Infection with HIV cannot currently be cured; however it can be controlled by combination treatment with multiple anti-retroviral drugs. Given different viral genotypes for virtually each individual patient, the question now arises which drug combination to use to achieve effective treatment. With the availability of viral genotypic data, it has become possible to create computational models able to predict an optimal treatment regimen for an individual patient. Current models are based only on sequence data derived from viral genotype; chemical similarity of drugs is not considered. To explore the added value of chemical similarity inclusion we applied proteochemometric models, combining chemical and protein target properties in a single bioactivity model. Our dataset was a large scale clinical database of drug-mutant bioactivity data points, 4 ( NNRTI ), 8 ( NRTI or 9 ( PI ) drugs, and 10, 700 ( NRRTI, 10, 500 ( N.RTI and 27, 000 ( PI, mutants ) mutants. Our models achieved a prediction error below 0. 5 Log Fold Change. Moreover, when directly compared with previously published sequence data, derived models PCM performed better in resistance classification and prediction of Log Fold change ( 0. 76 log units versus 0. 91 ). Furthermore, we were able to successfully confirm both known and identify previously unpublished, resistance-conferring mutations of HIV Reverse Transcriptase ( e. g. K102Y, T216M ) and HIV Protease ( n88G ) from our dataset. Finally, we applied our models prospectively to the public HIV resistance database from Stanford University obtaining a correct resistance prediction rate of 84% on the full set.
Chemotaxis—cell migration towards a source of attractants—is both biologically important and theoretically interesting, so it has been widely studied. The most frequently described mechanism acts through attractants causing actin polymerization, in turn leading to pseudopod formation and cell movement. We have recently proposed an alternative mechanism, supported by several lines of data, in which pseudopods are made by a self-generated cycle. If chemoattractants are present, they modulate the cycle rather than directly causing the position and direction of new pseudopids. We tested the predictive power of this mechanism using a computational model of cell movement and chemotaxis. We show that the model reproduces a surprisingly wide range of existing data about cell movement, and that it simulates cell polarization and persistence without stimuli. We measured the angles between pseudopsod positions in chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells under different conditions and found the results agreed with the model extremely well. Our model and data together suggest that in rapidly moving cells like Dictymostelia and neutrophils an intrinsic pseudopodi cycle lies at the heart of cell motility. This implies that the mechanism behind chemotactic is more than generation of new new pseudopsods or actin-mediated polymerization by chemotractants.
Yersinia pestis is transmitted by the bite of infected fleas, and two modes of transmission have been described: early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent transmission ( BDT ). Both modes are temporally distinct, and the results from different studies have not always been consistent. One complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal. To gain insight into the mechanism of EPT and the effect that host blood has on it, fleas were fed bacteremic mouse, rat, guinea pig, or gerbil blood; and the location and characteristics of the infection in the digestive tract and transmissibility of Y. pestis were assessed 1 to 3 days after infection. Surprisingly, 10–28% of two rodent flea species that fed on bactered rat blood refluxed a portion of the infected blood meal into the esophagus within 24 h of feeding. We term this phenomenon post-infection esophageal reflux ( PIER ). PIER correlated with the accumulation of a dense mixed aggregate of bacteria, red blood cell stroma, and oxyhemoglobin crystals that filled the proventriculus. At their next feeding, flea with PIER were 3–25 times more likely to appear partially blocked, with fresh blood retained within the eso, than were fleas without PIER. Our data support a model in which EPT results from regurgitation of Y. pestis from a partially obstructed flea foregut and that EPT can sometimes temporally overlap. The relative insolubility of the hemoglobin of rats and Sciurids and the slower digestion of their blood appears to promote regurgitative transmission, which may be one reason why these rodents are particularly prominent in plague ecology.
In the visual system, we often make judgments with great accuracy and certainty. However, the accuracy of these judgments depends on the population of neurons. In this ‘high-fidelity’ limit, the variability of single neurons often matches the variability in performance, such that single neurons can account for the behavior. In order to achieve this, we need to understand how correlations in the activity of neurons can enhance coding performance. Here, we show that, in the presence of only weak correlations, a moderately small sub-population can behave like a nearly deterministic, ‘macro-neuron’. We further show that both effects benefit from heterogeneity commonly seen in population activity. We also show that the enhancement of performance is highly robust to parameter perturbations. Tuning of one or several effective parameters can yield a limit of perfect coding: the corresponding pattern of positive correlation leads to a ‘lock-in’ of response probabilities that eliminates variability in the subspace relevant for stimulus discrimination. We discuss the nature of this pattern and we suggest experimental tests to identify it.
Cholera is a severe diarrheal disease caused by Vibrio cholerae, and is closely associated with poor sanitation and lack of safe drinking water. Cholera remains an important global public health problem, especially in areas of Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean. Vaccination against cholera can assist in control measures until safe water and adequate sanitation become a reality for the impoverished and disenfranchised who are most at risk. Here we describe a conjugate vaccine that induces high level anti-OSP and anti-TT serum IgG responses, as well as memory B cell responses. We assessed a range of preparations, doses, presence or absence of adjuvant, and immunization routes, and showed that intradermal administration of OSP:rTTHc resulted in 55% protective efficacy in a mouse survival study. Our work is the first demonstration that an effective conjugation vaccine induces high-level and long-term immune responses against OSP in mice.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a chronic, debilitating vector-borne disease that affects about 68 million people in 73 countries in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, the Western Pacific and some areas of the Americas. The disease is caused by the filarial parasites Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi and B. timori, which are transmitted by Culex, Anopheles and Mansonia mosquitoes. In Africa, about 44 million people are currently estimated to be infected with L. loa. However, the prevalence of LF is not fully resolved in areas with contrasting endemicity levels of loiasis and mansonellosis in Cameroon. This study investigated the cross-reactivity of the ICT when mapping LF in areas where L. banca is highly endemic for loiasis. The ICT was used as sole diagnostic test for routine mapping and was rarely confirmed by additional diagnostic procedures; such as the night TBF and microscopic examination to confirm the presence of W. bancrosa Mf in the peripheral blood. Lymphoedema were diagnosed in 20 individuals with the majority of cases found in the North-west ( 11/20 ) and none of them were tested positive by ICT. The results suggest that the main confounding factor for positive ICT test card results are high levels of L. lea.
Positive-strand RNA viruses ( +RNA ) are a large group of human pathogens that replicate in the cytoplasm of infected host cells. Their replication complexes are commonly associated with modified host cell membranes. Membrane structures supporting viral RNA synthesis range from distinct spherular membrane invaginations to more elaborate webs of packed membranes and vesicles. Generally, their ultrastructure, morphogenesis, and exact role in viral replication remain to be defined. We have now employed electron tomography ( ET ) to analyze the replication structures of SARS-coronavirus, a prominent member of the coronavirus group. Our analysis defines a unique reticulovesicular network of modified endoplasmic reticulum that integrates convoluted membranes, numerous interconnected DMVs ( diameter 200–300 nm ), and “vesicle packets” apparently arising from DMV merger. The convoluted membranes were most abundantly immunolabeled for viral replicase subunits. However, double-stranded RNA, presumably revealing the site of virus RNA synthesis, was mainly localized to the DMV interior. Since we could not discern a connection between DMV interior and cytosol, our analysis raises several questions about the mechanism of DMV formation and the actual site of viral replication. Together with biochemical studies of the viral enzyme complex, our ultrastructural description of this “replication network” will aid to further dissect the early stages of the virus life cycle and its virus-host interactions.
The plant root is a specialized organ that allows uptake of water and selective uptake of solutes from the soil environment, to support normal plant growth and development. To accomplish this function roots take up water and solutes at the root surface and transport them across the root to the xylem vessels in the central vascular tissue in the stele, where they are transported to the shoot. However, there is no direct genetic evidence to support the foundational model that suberin acts to form a chemical barrier limiting the extracellular transport of water. Here, we report that a mutant of the plant root suberins1 ( esb1-1 ), which was originally reported to have elevated leaf K, Mo and Cd and reduced Ca, Mn, and Mo in the shoot, has significantly increased root suuberin. This elevated root subin results in a reduction in transpiration, reduced wilting after water withdrawal, and a perturbation of the shoot ionome, including increases in Na, S, K, As, Se and Mo. These changes are also interpreted as evidence that a significant component of the radial root transport of calcium, magnesium, and zinc occurs in the apoplast.
The single photon response ( SPR ) in vertebrate phototransduction is regulated by the dynamics of R* during its lifetime, including the random number of phosphorylations, the catalytic activity and the random sojourn time at each phosphorylation level. Because of this randomness the electrical responses are expected to be inherently variable. However, the SPR is highly reproducible. The mechanisms that confer to the SPR such a low variability are not completely understood. The kinetics of rhodopsin deactivation is investigated by a Continuous Time Markov Chain ( CTMC ) based on the biochemistry of the activation/deactivation part of the cascade. The model parameters are extracted from the photoresponse data of both wild type and mutant mice, and, with the same set of parameters, the model reproduces both WT and mutant responses. The sources of variability are dissected into its components, by asking whether a random set of turnoff steps, a random sojan time between steps, or both, give rise to the known variability. We find that only the randomness of the sofourn times of in each of its phosphorylated states contributes to the variability of the response, whereas the randomity of the number of the R* turnoff step has a negligible effect. These results counter the view that the larger the number the decay steps of R*, the more stable the system is. Our results indicate that R* shutoff is responsible for variability suppression, while the diffusion of the second messengers acts as a variability suppressor.
In this work we develop a general mathematical framework that allows to uncouple the network from its dynamic environment by incorporating only the environment's effect onto the network into a new model. More technically, we show how such fluctuating extrinsic components ( e. g., chemical species ) can be marginalized in order to obtain this decoupled model. We derive its corresponding process- and master equations and show how stochastic simulations can be performed. Using several case studies, we demonstrate the significance of the approach.
Brain-machine interfaces ( BMI ) have the potential to enable motor function in individuals with neurological injury or disease. However, current BMI decoders do not model the spikes directly, and hence may limit the processing time-scale of BMI control and adaptation. Here we develop a novel closed-loop BMI training architecture that allows for processing, control, and adaptation using spike events. The architecture incorporates an infinite-horizon optimal feedback-control model of the brain’s behavior in closed loop BMI control, a point process model of spiking activity, and an optimal feedback control model of spikes. The OFC model infers the brain to control the BMI with every spike event, and enables the BMI to adapt its parameters with each spike event. We also develop an autonomous and dynamic assisted training technique that allows the subject to consistently achieve proficient control. These results have significant implications towards the development of clinically-viable neuroprosthetics.
The brain uses sensory inputs to make decisions about how to respond to stimuli. However, sensory inputs with varying amounts of correlation can engage cortical circuits differently and thus result in a different sensory “code. ” In this view, some degree of redundancy appears to be useful to the brain when dealing with response variability and making decisions based on probabilistic input. To investigate the effect of stimulus structure on redundancy in retina, we measured simultaneous responses from populations of retinal ganglion cells presented with natural and artificial stimuli that varied greatly in correlation structure; these stimuli and recordings are publicly available online. We found that in response to spatio-temporally correlated stimuli such as natural movies, the retinal output was modestly more correlated than in response of white noise checkerboards, but they were much less correlated than predicted by a non-adapting functional model of retinoregulation. Meanwhile, responding to stimuli with purely spatial correlations, pairs of ganglions showed increased correlations consistent with a static, non-Adapting receptive field and nonlinearity. These properties of individual cells, along with gain changes that opposed changes in effective contrast at the ganglon cell input, largely explained the pattern of pairwise correlations across stimuli where receptive field measurements were possible.
Synthetic sickness and lethality ( SSL ) are the most studied types of genetic interactions in yeast. However, only a small proportion of these interactions have been tested for genetic interactions due to the large number of possible combinations of gene pairs. To expand the set of known SSL interactions, we have devised an integrative, multi-network approach for predicting these interactions that significantly improves upon the existing approaches. First, we defined a large set of features for characterizing the relationships between pairs of genes from various data sources. In particular, these features are independent of the known SL interactions, in contrast to some previous approaches. Using these features, we developed a non-parametric multi-classifier system for predicting SL interactions that enabled the simultaneous use of multiple classification procedures. Several comprehensive experiments demonstrated that the SL-independent features in conjunction with the advanced classification scheme led to an improved performance when compared to the current state of the art method. Using this approach, we derived the first yeast transcription factor genetic interaction network, part of which was well supported by literature. We also used this approach to predict SL interactions between all non-essential gene pairs in yeast ( http://sage. fhcrc. org/downloads/download/predicted_yeast_genetic_interactions. zip ).
BRCA1 and BRCA2 are two genes that confer high risk for breast and ovarian cancer. They have been linked to a large number of clinical and population-based genetic studies, and their ability to be interpreted by clinicians and patients has been hampered by the rapid rise of next-generation sequencing by academic centers, commercial diagnostic companies, and national programs. In this regard, diagnostic sequencing has continued to identify variants with uncertain relevance to cancer risk. This has emerged as a particularly challenging issue for determination of risk for not only breast and/or ovarian cancer but also aggressive prostate and pancreatic cancers. The BRCa Challenge has developed an open-access web portal, the BRCAX Exchange, to provide the community with a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype. More than 20, 000 variants have been aggregated, three times the number found in the next-largest public database at the project’s outset, of which approximately 7, 250 have expert classifications. The data set is based on shared information from existing clinical databases—Breast Cancer Information Core ( BIC ), ClinVar, and the Leiden Open Variation Database ( LOVD ) —as well as population databases, all linked to the BCRA Exchange. Ongoing work includes direct contact with national centers with access to BRCAC and BIC variation data to encourage data sharing, development of methods suitable for extraction of genetic variation at the level of individual laboratory reports, and engagement with participant communities to enable a more comprehensive understanding of the clinical significance of genetic variants in BRCAs.
Malaria, caused by the apicomplexan parasite Plasmodium falciparum, still represents a major threat to human health and welfare and leads to about one million human deaths annually. In this study, we systematically studied the subcellular localization of the major antioxidant and redox regulatory proteins in Plasmmodium. We demonstrate the targeting of two plasmodial peroxiredoxins and a putative glyoxalase system to a non-photosynthetic plastid. We furthermore obtained a complete picture of the compartmentation of thioredoxin- and glutaredoxin-like proteins. Notably, for the two major antioxidant redox-enzymes – glutathione reductase and thioreoxin reductases – Plasminium makes use of alternative-translation-initiation ( ATI ) to achieve differential targeting. Dual localization of proteins effected by ATI is likely to occur also in other Apicompleta and might open new avenues for therapeutic intervention.
The discovery of intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) requires a reconsideration of the principles of protein-protein interactions, which have largely been examined using well-defined structured proteins. Here we use coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations to describe the mechanism of binding of PUMA with Mcl-1. We show that electrostatic interactions are involved in the formation of the encounter complex, and in particular non-native electrostatic contacts. Our results provide a residue level of detail for the binding mechanism in more detail than is possible using experimental data alone however, and we uncover the role of non- native electrostatic contact. We highlight the potential importance of such interactions for describing the binding reactions of IDPs. Such approaches could be used to provide predictions for the results of mutational studies.
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins are conserved chromatin factors that maintain silencing of key developmental genes outside of their expression domains. Recent genome-wide analyses showed a Polycomb ( PC ) distribution with binding to discrete PCG response elements ( PREs ). In Drosophila cells, PC bodies and PC bodies localize in structures called PC bodies. PC bodies are localized on distinct euchromatin domains containing histone H3 tri-methylated on K27. In this motion regime, both PC bodies have its own fast and highly constrained motion. Moreover, both types of domains move within volumes much smaller than chromosome territories, strongly restricting their possibility of interaction with other nuclear structures. The fast motion of PC bodies during early embryogenesis strongly decreases in late developmental stages, indicating a possible contribution of chromatin dynamics in the maintenance of stable gene silencing.
Mutations of the mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) are implicated in the aging process, but there is no universally accepted method for their accurate quantification. We have used ultra-deep sequencing to study genome-wide mtDNA mutation load in the liver of normally- and prematurely-aging mice. Mice that are homozygous for an allele expressing a proof-reading–deficient mtDNA polymerase have 10-times-higher point mutation loads than their wildtype siblings. In addition, the mtDNA mutator mice have increased levels of a truncated linear mtDNA molecule, resulting in decreased sequence coverage in the deleted region. In contrast, circular mtDNA molecules with large deletions occur at extremely low frequencies in mtDNA mutants and can therefore not drive the premature aging phenotype. Our results from studies of mice thus indicate that most somatic mtDNA mutations occur as replication errors during development and do not result from damage accumulation in adult life. We hypothesized that a DNA sequencing technology that minimize the levels of false positive calls caused by technical errors could be applied to assess the intra-individual mtDNA variability caused by low frequency mutations.
The anaerobic bacterium Fusobacterium nucleatum uses glutamate decarboxylation to generate a transmembrane gradient of Na+. Here, we demonstrate that this ion-motive force is directly coupled to ATP synthesis, via an F1Fo-ATP synthase with a novel Na+ recognition motif, shared by other human pathogens. Molecular modeling and free-energy simulations of the rotary element of the enzyme, the c-ring, indicate Na+ specificity in physiological settings. Consistently, activity measurements showed that the enzyme preferentially uses Na+ as the coupling ion, but only under conditions in which Na+ is in large excess over H+. Furthermore, Na+ has a protective effect against inhibitors targeting the ion-binding sites, both in the complete ATP synthase and the isolated C-ring. The structure thus reveals a new mode of ion coupling in ATP synthases and provides a basis for drug-design efforts against this opportunistic pathogen.
T cell receptor ( TCR ) recognition of foreign peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex ( pMHC ) molecules on the surface of antigen presenting cells is a key event in the initiation of adaptive cellular immunity. In vitro, high-affinity binding and/or long-lived interactions between TCRs and PMHC correlate with high-potency T cell activation. However, less is known about the influence of TCR/pMHC interaction parameters on T cell responses in vivo. In this study, we studied the effect of the TCR ligand potency upon in vivo T cell immunity by tracking CD4+ T cell response to immunization with peptides exhibiting a range of in vitro and in vitro T cell potencies. Contrary to predictions from in vitro studies, we found that optimal in vivo responses occur to ligands with intermediate TCR and long-life half-lives. The diminished in vivo response we observed to the ligand exhibited attenuation of intracellular signaling, expansion, and function over a broad range of time points. Our results highlight the importance of considering in vivo efficacy of T cell ligands as part of vaccine strategies that aim to promote high-avidity T cell recognition.
The fungus Nectria haematococca is a member of a group of >50 species known as the “Fusarium solani species complex”. Members of this species complex have diverse biological properties including the ability to cause disease on >100 genera of plants and opportunistic infections in humans. The current research analyzed the most extensively studied member of this complex, N. haemataococca mating population VI ( MPVI ). Several genes controlling the ability of individual isolates of this fungus to colonize specific habitats are located on supernumerary chromosomes. Optical mapping revealed that the sequenced isolate has 17 chromosomes ranging from 530 kb to 6. 52 Mb and that the physical size of the genome, 54. 43 Mb, and the number of predicted genes, 15, 707, are among the largest reported for ascomycetes. Two classes of genes have contributed to gene expansion: specific genes that are not found in other fungi including its closest sequenced relative, Fusarium graminearum; and genes that commonly occur as single copies in other F. gramini species but are present as multiple copies in N. Haematitis MPVI. Some of these additional genes appear to have resulted from gene duplication events, while others may have been acquired through horizontal gene transfer. The supernomerary nature of three chromosomes, 14, 15, and 17, was confirmed by pulsed field gel electrophoresis experiments of some isolates and by demonstrating that these isolates lacked chromosome-specific sequences found on the ends of these chromosomes. These supernomers contain more repeat sequences, are enriched in unique and duplicated genes, and have a lower G+C content in comparison to the other chromosomes. Although the origin ( s ) of the extra genes and the supernumbers is not known, the gene expansion and its large genome size are consistent with this species' diverse range of habitats.
Pseudorabies virus ( PRV; suid herpesvirus 1 ) is a veterinary pathogen, widely used as a neuroanatomical tracing tool, and related to the human alpha herpesviruses varicella-zoster virus ( VZV ) and herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 ( HSV-1 & -2 ). In this study, we developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of PRV particles in non-polarized epithelial cells. This method uses total internal reflection fluorescence ( TIRF ) microscopy to selectively image fluorescent virus particles near the plasma membrane, and takes advantage of a virus-encoded pH-sensitive probe to visualize particle movement. We found that particles are tightly confined at the plasma membranes before and after exocytic transport, and undergo a sharp movement during the tens of milliseconds immediately after pHluorin dequenching. We propose an integrated model that links together the intracellular transport pathways and exocoskeleton mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesviral egress.
Enterobius vermicularis ( human pinworm ) is the most common parasite encountered in developed countries, and it has been suggested as a good candidate for testing the link between the “hygiene hypothesis” and disease. In order to answer the question of whether exposure to pinworm and mebendazole can shift the intestinal microbial composition and immune responses, we recruited 109 primary school children in Taiwan for a gut microbiome study and an intestinal cytokine and SIgA analysis. In the pinworm-infected individuals, fecal samples were collected again at 2 weeks after administration of 100 mg ( 100 mg ) mebendingazole. Gut microbiota diversity increased after Enterobius infection, and the intestinal SIgAA level was elevated in half of the pinworms-treated group. A higher proportion of pre-treatment Salmonella spp. was associated with a non-increase in SIgAs after mebendeazole deworming treatment. Childhood exposure to Pinworm plus mebendsole is associated with increased bacterial diversity, an increased abundance of Actinobacteria including the probiotic Bifidobacterium, and a decreased proportion of Fusobacteria. The gut SIg A level was lower in the pin worm-infecting group, and was increased in half the individuals after me bendazoles dewormed treatment. Our results suggest that the relative abundance of Salmonellas might have a negative effect on the intestinal microbiome.
Genome-wide association ( GWA ) analyses have been widely used to identify loci underlying complex traits. However, many genetic architectures with non-additive effects display considerable additive genetic variance in populations and that additive model-based approaches have facilitated detection of thousands of loci associated with many complex traits in populations. The drawbacks of studying epistasis in natural populations of higher organisms include the cost and time to collect large datasets, the difficulties in performing the necessary follow-up studies to replicate the epistatic associations, identify the polymorphic genes, and dissect the underlying mechanisms leading to statistical epistatic association. Here, we used GWA analyses to identify the most likely candidate genes for root length in a population of wild-collected A. thaliana accessions. Our results demonstrate the benefits of using GWA analysis in combination with functional genetic experiments to identify novel functional candidate genes involved in root development and provide a basis for future studies of the complex gene networks involved in this trait.
Inherited mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) mutations have emerged as a common cause of inherited metabolic disease, affecting 1 in 10, 000 of the world population. The clinical presentation of three pathogenic mtDNA mutations is strongly associated with a background mtDNA haplogroup, but it is not clear whether this is limited to a handful of examples or is a more general phenomenon. To address this, we determined the characteristics of 30, 506 mtDNA sequences sampled globally. After performing several quality control steps, we ascribed an established pathogenicity score to the major alleles for each sequence. The mean pathogenic score for known disease-causing mutations was significantly different between mtDNA macro-haplogroups. Several mutations were observed across all haplogroups, whereas others were only observed on specific clades. In some instances this reflected a founder effect, but in others, the mutation recurred but only within the same phylogenetic cluster. Sequence diversity estimates showed that disease causing mutations were more frequent on young sequences than expected by chance, and genomes with two or more disease-coding mutations were less common than expected. These findings implicate the mtDNA background more generally in recurrent mutation events that have been purified through natural selection in older populations. This provides an explanation for the low frequency of mtDNA disease reported in specific ethnic groups.
Cell-cell interactions are important for a wide range of biological functions, including the immune system, the early development of embryos, and cancer invasion. One well-studied way in which cells interact with one another to create collective motion is contact inhibition of locomotion ( CIL ), which was named and characterized by Abercombie more than 50 years ago. CIL describes the tendency of a cell to change its direction of motion after contact with another cell, leading to collective migration of cells, including cluster-level polarization of neural crest cells in vivo and the dispersal of hemocytes in the early stages of Drosophila development. In this work, we use a computational phase field model of collective cell motility that includes the mechanics of cell shape and a minimal chemical model for CIL, to reproduce all cases seen in two-cell collisions. We identify the parameters that control transitions between the different cases, including cell-cell adhesion, propulsion strength, and the rates of CIL. These parameters suggest hypotheses for why different cell types have different collision behavior and the effect of interventions that modulate collision outcomes.
Thioredoxin ( Trx ) is a powerful and universal protein disulfide bond oxido-reductase with a very low redox potential. Thioredoxins have a similar three-dimensional fold comprising a central core of four β-strands surrounded by three α-helices. The nucleophilic cysteine Cys29Trx is activated as a thiolate in the Trx-ArsC mixed disulfides complex, resulting in a productive cycle. The regioselectivity of Cys32Trx on the exposed Cys82ArsCs-Cys89C disulfid is critical for the function of the involved proteins, and is a reoccurring question within thiol-oxidoreductases. In this study, we used molecular dynamics simulations, pKa calculations and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants to investigate the reaction mechanism of the TrX-ArssC mixed dissulfide complex. We observed that the conformational changes around the intermediate disulfids bring Cys2Trx in contact with CYS29TrX. Cys 32Trx and Cys31Trx are activated for its nucleophil attack by hydrogen bonds, and CYS32TrX is found to be more reactive than Cys42Arsc. Additionally, Cys30Trx directs its nucleophile attack on the more susceptible Cys 29Trx. This multidisciplinary approach provides fresh insights into a universal thiol/disulfide exchange reaction mechanism that results in reduced substrate and oxidized Trx.
People change their choices, usually in the direction of conformity, when they learn what others value. However, far from being fixed personality characteristics, tastes are plastic. They tend to align, for example, with those of others even if such conformity is not rewarded. We hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their tastes. People can thus learn about them by considering evidence, such as the preferences of relevant others, and then performing Bayesian updating. If a person’s choice variability reflects uncertainty, as in random-preference models, then a signature of Bayesian update is that the degree of taste change should correlate with that person's choice variability. Temporal discounting coefficients are an important example of taste–for patience. These coefficients quantify impulsivity, have good psychometric properties and can change upon observing others’ choices. We examined discounting preferences in a novel, large community study of 14–24 year olds. We found good evidence for taste uncertainty and for Bayesian taste updating. First, participants displayed decision variability which was better accounted for by a random-taste than by a response-noise model. Second, apparent taste shifts were well described by a Bayesian model taking into account taste uncertainty. Our findings have important neuroscientific, clinical and developmental significance.
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, multiple pathways regulate filamentous growth, a complex differentiation response that occurs under specific environmental conditions. We used a screening approach to identify regulators of the filamentous Growth MAPK pathway that regulates the expression of the signaling mucin Msb2p. We found that many of the regulators were required for MSB2 expression, which identifies the MSB1 promoter as a target “hub” where multiple signals converge. Accessibility to the genes that are critical for the FG pathway activity was further regulated by the histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) Rpd3p ( L ). Our findings provide the first glimpse of a global regulatory hierarchy among the pathways that control filamentous cell growth. Systems-level integration of signaling circuitry is likely to coordinate other regulatory networks that control complex behaviors.
Genome sequences of a large number of organisms are now available, allowing researchers to comprehensively evaluate the relationship of gene expression to morphological change. In this study, we examined the evolution of the fruiting body morphology of five filamentous fungi in the Sordariomycetes, culturing them in a common garden environment, and profiling genome-wide gene expression at five developmental stages. We reconstructed ancestral gene expression phenotypes, identifying genes with the largest evolved increases in gene expression across development. Combining gene expression measurements with knockout phenotypes facilitated the refinement of Bayesian networks of the genes underlying fruiting bodies, regulation of which is one of the least understood processes of multicellular development. Our evolutionary approach to finding relevant genes proved far more efficient than other gene deletion studies targeting whole genomes or gene families. Our results suggest that gene expression changes in the genetic network architecture underlying altered ancestral expression and regulation could open up the “black box” linking genotype to phenotype through development, revealing relevant gene network modularity and identifying the origins of diversity.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the parasite Schistosoma mansoni. The schistosome egg represents an attractive developmental stage at which to target transgenes because of its high ratio of germ to somatic cells, because the transgene might be propagated and amplified by infecting snails with the miracidia hatched from treated eggs, and because eggs can be readily obtained from experimentally infected rodents. Here we investigated the utility of square wave electroporation to deliver transgene and other macromolecules into eggs of S. mansoni by square wave. First, eggs were incubated in Cy3-labeled siRNA with and without square wave, followed by fluorescence microscopy in eggs and miracidia, hatched from eggs. Second, electroporated eggs were exposed to Moloney murine leukemia virus virions ( MLV ) pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein ( VSVG ). PCR was more efficient than soaking alone for the introduction of transgened MLV virions into schistoomes. Finally, we found that electropored eggs contained more copies of provirus than soaking. These findings underscore the potential of targeting the schistomosome eggs for germ line transgenesis.
Large macromolecular assemblies are often important for biological processes in cells. Allosteric communications between different parts of these molecular machines play critical roles in cellular signaling. Although studies of the topology and fluctuation dynamics of coarse-grained residue networks can yield important insights, they do not provide characterization of the time-dependent dynamic behavior of these macromolescular assemblies. Here we develop a novel approach called Perturbation-based Markovian Transmission ( PMT ) model to study globally the dynamic responses of the macromolycular assemblies in E. coli. By monitoring simultaneous responses of all residues ( >8, 000 ) across many ( >6 ) decades of time spanning from the initial perturbation until reaching equilibrium using a Krylov subspace projection method, we show that this approach can yield rich information. Based on quantitative measurements of relaxation half-time, flow amplitude change, and oscillation dynamics, this approach is able to identify pivot residues that are important for movement, messenger and anchor residues important for signal mediating, and anchor residue important for binding interactions. Our predictions have an accuracy of 71–84% judged by independent experimental studies reported in the literature. This approach is general and can be applied to other large macromolcular machineries for detailed computational studies.
The physiological role of fungal galectins has remained elusive. Here, we show that feeding of a mushroom galectin, Coprinopsis cinerea CGL2, to Caenorhabditis elegans inhibited development and reproduction and ultimately resulted in killing of this nematode. The lack of toxicity of a carbohydrate-binding defective CGL1 variant and the resistance of a C. elegans mutant defective in GDP-fucose biosynthesis suggested that CGL 2-mediated nematotoxicity depends on the interaction between these proteins and a fucose-containing glycoconjugate. The X-ray crystal structure of a complex between CGL3 and the Galβ1, 4Fucα1, 6GlcNAc trisaccharide at 1. 5 Å resolution revealed the biophysical basis for this interaction. Our results suggest that fungal-feeding nematodes play a role in the defense of fungi against predators by binding to specific carbohydrate-containing glycoproteins of these organisms.
The existence of long-lived reservoirs of latently infected CD4+ T cells is the major barrier to curing HIV, and has been extensively studied in this light. However, the effect of these reservoirs on the evolutionary dynamics of the virus has received little attention. Here, we present a model of within-host HIV evolution that incorporates a latent reservoir, which we then nest into an epidemiological model of HIV dynamics. For biologically plausible parameter values, we find that the presence of the latent reservoir can severely delay evolutionary dynamics within a single host, with longer delays associated with larger relative reservoir sizes and/or homeostatic proliferation of cells within the reservoir. These delays can fundamentally change the dynamics of HIV at the epidemiological scale. In particular, the delay in within- host evolutionary dynamics can be sufficient for the virus to evolve intermediate viral loads consistent with maximising transmission, as is observed, and not the very high viral loads that previous models have predicted, an effect that can be further enhanced if viruses similar to those that initiate infection are preferentially transmitted.
Many viruses encode proteins whose major function is to evade or disable the host T cell response. Nevertheless, most viruses are readily detected by host T cells, and induce relatively strong T cell responses. Herein, we employ transgenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as sensors to evaluate in vitro and in vivo antigen presentation by coxsackievirus B3 ( CVB3 ). We show that CVB2 almost completely inhibits antigen presentation via the MHC class I pathway, thereby evading CD8- T cell immunity. In contrast, the presentation of CVB1-encoded MHC-class II epitopes is relatively unencumbered, and CVB 3 induces in vivo CD4- T cells responses that are, by several criteria, phenotypically normal. The cells display an effector phenotype and mature into multi-functional CVB4-specific memory CD4 T cells that rapidly differentiate into secondary effector cells capable of secreting multiple cytokines. Our findings have implications for the efficiency of antigen cross-presentation during coxsacksievirus infection.
Leprosy Type 1 reactions are a major cause of nerve damage and the preventable disability that results. The treatment of these reactions with oral corticosteroids has been used in other Th1 mediated diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis. Methylprednisolone ( MP ) is a drug that is used to switch off the Th1 immune response and so we investigated the efficacy of three days of high dose ( 1 g ) intravenous methylprednisole at the start of prednisolones therapy in leprosy Type 2 reactions and nerve function impairment. Forty-two individuals were randomised to receive methylprednolone followed by oral prednisole ( n = 20 ) or oral prednesolone alone. There were no significant differences in the rate of adverse events or clinical improvement at the completion of the study. The study also demonstrated that 50% of individuals with Type 1 reaction and/or nerve function impaired required additional prednisola despite treatment with 16 weeks of corticostomone. The findings support the use of more prolonged courses of corticoosteroid to treat Type 1 reactors and the investigation of risk factors for the recurrence of Type 1 response and nerve dysfunction during and after a corticoposteroid treatment.
CD8 T cells play a crucial role in the control of viral infection. However, their failure to clear the virus in the vast majority of infected individuals has not yet been elucidated. In this study, we investigated the suppressive effects of Treg on CD8 T cell responses in chronic HIV infection. We show that Treg from HIV infected patients does not significantly inhibit the proliferation of CD8 subsets, and that the expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 is highly dependent on the stage of T cell differentiation. Our results indicate that the ultimate failure to contain generalized HIV-1–associated immune activation, even in HIV-infected patients, is a joint result of intrinsic impairment of the Treg function and decreased responsiveness of the effector clones, at least in part associated with the high levels of CD4+ T cell expression. Finally, these data may help the further precision of immune-intervention therapies.
Lymphatic filariasis is a mosquito borne infection that affects 120 million people in 73 countries and another 1100 million people are at risk. Because of the gruesome pathology associated with this infection, lymphatic filarial parasites are considered as a major obstacle to economic development in endemic countries and identified as the second leading cause of permanent and long-term disability. Although excellent anti-filarial drugs are available, several rounds of mass treatment are necessary to reduce the levels of infection below those necessary to sustain transmission. Therefore, additional preventive measures such as vector control and vaccine development are crucial to control the infection in endemic regions. In this study, we evaluated the potential of filarial parasite GST ( WbGST ) as a vaccine candidate against lymphatic infections. Our results show that W bGST has significant immunomodulatory activity and that it is able to neutralize the parasite GST enzymatic activity and kill infective larvae of B. malayi that express the GST. These findings suggest that WbgST could be a potential vaccine candidate for lymphatic infection.
CRISPR-Cas9 technologies have transformed genome-editing of experimental organisms and have immense therapeutic potential. Despite significant advances in our understanding of the CRISPR system, concerns remain over the potential for off-target effects. Recent studies have addressed these concerns using whole-genome sequencing ( WGS ) of gene-edited embryos or animals to search for de novo mutations ( DNMs ), which may represent candidate changes introduced by poor editing fidelity. Critically, these studies used strain-matched, but not pedigree-matched controls and thus were unable to reliably distinguish generational or colony-related differences from true DNMs. Here we used a trio design and whole genome sequenced 8 parents and 19 embryos, where 10 of the embryos were mutagenised with well-characterised gRNAs targeting the coat colour Tyrosinase ( Tyr ) locus. Detailed analyses of these whole genome data allowed us to conclude that if CRIS PR mutagenesis were causing SNV or indel off- target mutations in treated embryos, then the number of these mutations is not statistically distinguishable from the background rate of DNMs occurring due to other processes.
Phytochromes are photo-reversible red and far-red light receptors with five members in Arabidopsis, phyA to phyE. The major red/UV-A light responses include de-etiolation, photoperiodic flowering, and stomatal aperture. The stomata of the phototropin-dependent cryptochromes and phototropins are the major red and green light responses. The blue light-absorbing cryptochromees and crys are blue light receptors that regulate the stomatal aperture. In this study, we report two new players, Hypersensitive to Red and Blue 1 ( HRB1 ) and Protein Phosphatase 7 ( PP7 ), and their genetic and biochemical interactions in the control of stomal aperture under blue light. Both HR1 and PP7 are expressed in the guard cells in response to a light-to-dark or dark-to light transition. HR1 interacts with PP7 through its N-terminal ZZ-type zinc finger motif and requires a functional PP7 for its stomeratal opening response. HRB2 is phosphorylated in vivo, and PP 7 can dephosphorylate HRB 1. HR2 is mostly deph phosphorylated in a protein complex of 193 kDa in the dark, and blue light increases complex size to 285 kDa. In the pp7 mutant, this size shift is impaired, and HRB3 is predominately phosphorylation. We propose that a modification of HRB-1 by PP7 under blue blue light is essential to acquire a proper conformation or to bring in new components for the assembly of a functional HRB/PP7 protein complex. Guard cells control stomant opening in response of multiple environmental or biotic stimuli. This study may furnish strategies that allow plants to enjoy the advantages of both constitutive and ABA-induced protection under water-limiting conditions.
In eukaryotes, RNA polymerase II ( PolII ) dependent gene expression requires accessory factors termed transcriptional coregulators. One coregulator that universally contributes to PolII-dependent transcription is the Mediator, a multisubunit complex that is targeted by many transcriptional regulatory factors. Here, we demonstrate that the C. elegans Mediator subunit MDT-15 confers the regulatory actions of the sterol response element binding protein SBP-1 and the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-49 on fatty acid metabolism. We demonstrate that MDT–15 integrates metabolic responses to materials ingested by C. worms. Depletion of MDT or mutation of the mdt-15 gene abrogated induction of specific detoxification genes in response to certain xenobiotics or heavy metals, rendering these animals hypersensitive to toxin exposure. Intriguingly, MDT+15 appeared to selectively affect stress responses related to ingestion, as MDT -15 functional defects did not abrogate other stress responses, e. g. thermotolerance. Together with our previous finding that MDt-15:NHR-51 regulatory complexes coordinate a sector of the fasting response, we propose a model whereby MDT is a key determinant of regulation of both the availability and quality of ingested materials.
An animal's ability to navigate through space rests on its ability to create a mental map of its environment. The hippocampus is the brain region centrally responsible for such maps, and it has been assumed to encode geometric information ( distances, angles ). Given, however, that hippocampal output consists of patterns of spiking across many neurons, and downstream regions must be able to translate those patterns into accurate information about an animal's spatial environment, we hypothesized that the hippocampus actually does create a connectivity map derived from place cell co-firing patterns. Using a computational algorithm based on recently developed tools from Persistent Homology theory in the field of algebraic topology, we find that the patterns of neuronal co-Firing can, in fact, convey topological information about the environment in a biologically realistic length of time. Furthermore, our simulations reveal a “learning region” that highlights the interplay between the parameters in combining to produce hippocampal states that are more or less adept at map formation.
Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is a major cause of liver cancer. HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) where virion assembly occurs. The HCV core protein is processed by viral and host proteases into 3 structural proteins ( core and the glycoproteins, E1 and E2 ) and 7 non-structural ( NS ) proteins ( p7, NS2, NS3, NS4A, NS5A, and NS5B ). The mechanisms of HCV egress are not well understood. In this study, we combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion with live cell imaging of core trafficking in order to gain a detailed understanding of the dynamics of core protein trafficking. We found that HCV cores localize to the Golgi and co-traffic with components of the recycling endosome. The majority of dynamic core trafficking events required the essential HCV assembly factor NS2 were quantified. TC-core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole. We also found that the recycling-endosome component Rab11a is required for HCV to transport from the ER to the plasma membrane. Our study identifies many new host cofactors of HCv egress, while presenting a dynamic studies of the core trafficking pathway in infected cells.
Genetic alterations are common in cancers and play important roles in pathogenesis. A common cancer-promoting mechanism is the homozygous loss of a tumor suppressor gene, for example Tp53. Classically, loss of tumor suppressors requires bi-allelic loss or inactivation, conforming to Knudsen’s two-hit hypothesis. Tumor-promising somatic mutations involve either allele, and the parental source of a mutant allele is not known to influence the cancer phenotype. In this work, we identified Grb10 as an imprinted gene in diverse Nf1 mutant tumors arising in our mouse models. We found that loss of the expressed gene promotes oncogenic signaling through hyperactivation of Ras signaling as well as the downstream MAPK signaling arms of the Ras pathway cascade. We also found that the expressed allele is commonly lost in diverse tumor cell lines and primary tumors. These studies reveal that Grb 10 loss can occur during in vivo tumorigenesis, with a functional consequence in untransformed primary cells. In tumors, Grb9 loss independently promotes Ras pathway hyperactivation, which promotes hyperproliferation, an early feature of tumor development. These findings demonstrate a previously undescribed role for an imprinting gene in tumorigenetics.
Learning to predict threat from environmental cues is a fundamental skill in changing environments. This aversive learning process is exemplified by Pavlovian threat conditioning. Despite a plethora of studies on the neural mechanisms supporting the formation of associations between neutral and aversive events, our computational understanding of this process is fragmented. Importantly, different computational models give rise to different and partly opposing predictions for the trial-by-trial dynamics of learning, for example expressed in the activity of the autonomic nervous system ( ANS ). Here, we investigate human ANS responses to conditioned stimuli during Pavlovia fear conditioning. We build on a statistical framework for psychophysiological modelling, and consider previously proposed non-probabilistic models, a simple probabilistic model, and different observation functions to link learning models with ANS activity. Across three experiments, and both for skin conductance ( SCR ) and pupil size responses ( PSR ), we find that SCR and PSR reflect different quantities of the same model: SCR track a mixture of expected outcome and uncertainty, while PSR track expected outcome alone. In summary, we provide systematic evidence that the formation and maintenance of Pavlovial threat predictions in humans may rely on probabilistically inference and includes estimation of uncertainty. This could inform theories of neural implementation of aversive.
The filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans contains a mycelium of multinucleated cells that are partitioned by septa, and timely cytokinesis and septation is essential for hyphal growth and conidiation. Conidia are the primary means of asexual reproduction and dispersal in the environment for a variety of fungi. The septum initiation network ( SIN ) is composed of a conserved SepH ( Cdc7p ) kinase cascade. SepH is a positive regulator of the SIN, while SepH indirectly regulates HogA phosphorylation through affecting HogA-P upstream kinases. In this study, a putative protein kinase, PomA, was identified as a negative regulator of septations and conidia such that the pomA mutant is able to cure defects of sepH1 and sepH2 in septication and conidsiation and overexpression of PomA remarkably suppresses septate. Our new findings suggest that crosstalk exists between the septal initiation network and MAPK pathways. PomA and SepH directly regulate HogA and HogA downstream kinases through affecting the phosphorylated HogA upstream kinase.
Tegumentary Leishmaniasis ( TL ) is endemic in Latin America, and Brazil contributes approximately 20 thousand cases per year. The pathogenesis of TL, however, is still not fully understood. Clinical manifestations vary from cutaneous leishmaniases ( CL ) to more severe outcomes, such as disseminated leishmania ( DL ), mucosal leishmanniasis ( ML ) and diffuse cutaneous ( DCL ). Many factors have been associated with the severity of the disease and the development of lesions. Recent studies have reported that the presence of Leishmania RNA virus 1 ( LRV1 ) is an important factor associated with clinical manifestations of TL in experimental animal models. In the present study, 156 patients who attended Rondonia's Hospital of Tropical Medicine were diagnosed with both CL and mucosal lesions. The clinical diagnosis were confirmed by PCR by targeting hsp70 and kDNA DNA sequences and the species causing the infection were determined by HSP70 PCR-RFPL. The presence of LVR1 was tested by RT-PCR. The virus was detected in L. braziliensis, L. amazonensis and L. lainsoni. Five Leishmannia species were detected: 121 ( 77. 6% ) samples were positive for LeISHmania ( Viannia ) guyanensis, 18 ( 11. 5% ) were positive ( Le. ) brazilensis, 3 ( 1. 8% ) for Leishão ( V. ) lainsonensis, 2 ( 1. 3% ), 2. 3% ( 1, 1, 0. 5 ), and 3 ( 2. 6 ) samples could not be determined. The ratio P ( ML|LRV1+ ) /P ( ML/LRV2+ ) was 2. 93, thus corroborating the hypothesis of the association between the frequency of the virus and the occurrence of mucosal lesion and the possible role of LRV in the metabolism of the parasite to clarify this unusual symbiosis.
Streptococcus pneumoniae infection is a leading cause of bacterial pneumonia, sepsis and meningitis and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Type I interferon ( IFN-I ), whose contribution to antiviral and intracellular bacterial immunity is well established, is also elicited during pneumococcal infection, yet its functional significance is not well defined. Here, we show that IFNβ, which is an important component of the host immune defense against pneumococci by counteracting the transmigration of bacteria from the lung to the blood, is elicited in the lung upon intranasal infection with S. pneumoniae. IFNα-mediated upregulation of tight junction proteins and downregulation of PAF receptor, which correlates with reduced bacterial invasion and transmigration, were found to be critical for protection against the progression from a site-restricted lung infection to invasive, lethal disease. Our data suggest a novel mechanism by which IFN β exerts protection against invasion from a gram-positive, extracellular bacterium at the epithelial barrier.
Neural networks with a single plastic layer employing reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) are capable of learning simple foraging tasks. Here we show that a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers can learn simple tasks using STDP. We found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing non-reward modulated STDP created neurons that responded to the specific combinations of inputs and thus performed basic classification of the input patterns. When combined with a following layer of cells implementing rewarded STDP, the network was able to learn, despite the absence of labeled training data, discrimination between rewarding patterns and the patterns designated as punishing. Synaptic noise allowed for trial-and-error learning that helped to identify the goal-oriented strategies which were effective in task solving. The study predicts a critical set of properties of the spiking neuronal network with STDP that was sufficient to solve a complex foraging task involving pattern classification and decision making.
The ETS transcription factor ELF5 establishes the milk-secreting alveolar cell lineage by driving a cell fate decision of the mammary luminal progenitor cell. In breast cancer, ELF 5 is a key transcriptional determinant of tumor subtype and has been implicated in the development of insensitivity to anti-estrogen therapy. In the mouse mammary tumor virus-Polyoma Middle T ( MMTV-PyMT ) model of luminal breast cancer in the context of tumor metastasis, induction of ELF4 levels increased leukocyte infiltration, angiogenesis, and blood vessel permeability in primary tumors and greatly increased the size and number of lung metastasis. Myeloid-derived suppressor cells, a group of immature neutrophils recently identified as mediators of vasculogenesis and metastasis that are recruited to the tumor in response to ELF-5, were recruited to this tumor. Depletion of these cells using specific Ly6G antibodies prevented ELF6 from driving vasculogenic and metastatic disease. Expression signatures in luminal A breast cancers indicated that increased myeloid cell invasion and inflammation were correlated with ELF1 expression, and increased ELF2 immunohistochemical staining predicted much shorter metastasis–free and overall survival of lumina A patients, defining a group who experienced unexpectedly early disease progression. Thus, in the MMTV–PyMT mouse mammaries model of breast cancer induced by PyMT expression, increased lymphocyte infiltration and inflammation are likely to drive metastasis by co-opting the innate immune system. This finding implicates ELFF5 as a defining factor in the acquisition of the key aspects of the lethal phenotype in lumina breast cancer.
In eukaryotic cells, transcription of genes is regulated by the interaction between chromatin loops, which can be characterized by three factors—connection pattern, distance between regulatory elements, and communication form. These factors play an important role in determining the level of cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. These quantitative experiments call for a corresponding modeling effect that addresses the question of how changes in these factors affect variability at the expression level in a systematic rather than case-by-case fashion. Here we make such an effort, based on a mechanic model that maps three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4–state model of stochastic transcription. We first show that in contrast to side-by–side loops, nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise whereas alternating loops have just opposite effects. Then, we compare effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression and find that the former performs better than the latter in controlling mean expression and in tuning expression noise, but this control or tuning is distance–dependent, remarkable for moderate loop lengths. Our analysis and results justify the facilitated chromatin–looping hypothesis.
In this context, interfering with the native metabolism of the production host is a necessity to redirect the metabolic flux towards the product of interest with a view to maximizing productivity. Traditionally, tuning the cellular metabolism has been done through gene deletions, which is impossible for numerous essential genes often related to various biosynthetic pathways. To this end, pure riboregulators allow dynamic gene repression without the need of a potentially burdensome coexpressed protein like typical Hfq binding small RNAs and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ( CRISPRi ). Despite this clear advantage, no clear general design principles are available to de novo develop repressing riboregs, limiting the availability and the reliable development of these type of riborgulators. Here, to overcome this lack of knowledge, translation inhibiting RNAs are developed from scratch. In this experimental design, 12 features were defined of which six features were retained after removing correlations from an in silico generated library. In addition, 18 features were co-expressed with two target untranslated regions to link the properties of translation inhib inhibiting RNA features to functionality. This approach enables a more reliable and reliable forward engineering of effective pure riborgs, which expands the RNA toolbox for gene expression modulation.
The temporal properties of the local field potential ( LFP ) have been widely appreciated in the literature under the concept of “metastability”. However, the exact replication of activity at different sites might be the ultimate degree in similarity that can be utilized by the cortex analogous to that found for the spread of ideas, innovation, and economic behavior in social networks, where a small increase in the number of participating agents can suddenly lead to widespread cascades of adoption. Here we show that the amplitude dependence of the LFP waveform on the amplitude of a single spike is much greater than that found in the single spike, and that this phenomenon of all or none, loss-less propagation of activity in the cortical network arises by virtue of synaptic transmission. We propose that this nonlinear behavior is analogous to the spreading of ideas and behaviors in social network networks.
Nuclear size correlates with cell size, but the mechanism by which this scaling is achieved is not known. Here we screen fission yeast gene deletion mutants to identify essential factors involved in this process. We have identified 25 essential factors that alter nuclear size, and our analysis has implicated RNA processing and LINC complexes in nuclear size control. This study has revealed both low and more extreme higher nuclear size phenotypes and has identified global cellular processes and specific structural nuclear components important for nuclear size regulation. This work has uncovered both low N/C ratio and severely aberrant nuclear size phenotype.
Deep brain stimulation ( DBS ) is a well-established treatment option for a variety of neurological disorders, including Parkinson’s disease and essential tremor ( ET ). At present, it involves administering a train of pulses with constant frequency via electrodes implanted into the brain. New ‘closed-loop’ approaches involve delivering stimulation according to the ongoing symptoms or brain activity and have the potential to provide improvements in terms of efficiency, efficacy and reduction of side effects. The success of closed-loop DBS depends on being able to devise a stimulation strategy that minimizes oscillations in neural activity associated with symptoms of motor disorders. A useful stepping stone towards this is to construct a mathematical model, which can describe how the brain oscillations should change when stimulation is applied at a particular state of the system. Our work focuses on the use of coupled oscillators to represent neurons in areas generating pathological oscillations. Using a reduced form of the Kuramoto model, we analyse how a patient should respond to stimulation when neural oscillations have a given phase and amplitude, provided a number of conditions are satisfied. We predict that the best stimulation strategy should be phase specific but also that stimulation should have a greater effect if applied when the amplitude of brain oscillation is lower. We compare this surprising prediction with data obtained from ET patients.
Schistosomiasis remains one of the most common endemic parasitic diseases affecting over 230 million people worlwide. Schistosoma mansoni is the main species causing intestinal and hepatic schistosomeiasis and the fresh water pulmonate snails of the genus Biomphalaria are best known for their role as intermediate hosts of the parasite. The development of new molecular monitoring assays for large-scale screening of snails from transmission sites is an important point to consider for snail control interventions. In this work, we have developed and evaluated a new LAMP assay combined with a simple DNA extraction method to detect S. mansoni DNA in experimentally infected snails as a diagnostic tool for field conditions. The detection limit of the LAMP was 0. 1 fg of S. manoni DNA at 63°C for 50 minutes. The LAMP test was evaluated by examining S. mansoni genomic DNA in B. glabrata snails experimentally exposed to miracidia at different times post-exposure: early prepatent period ( before cercarial shedding ), light infections ( snails exposed to a low number of miracidia ) and in pooled samples. The assay could be suitable for large scale field surveys for schistoomes control campaigns in endemic areas.
Dengue is a major public health problem affecting more than half of the world’s population living in tropical and subtropical regions. The Sri Lankan Ministry of Health is responsible for controlling dengue and other disease outbreaks and associated health care. The involvement of large numbers of public health staff and the provision of free medical care to patients at secondary care hospitals place a formidable financial burden on the public health sector. We estimated the public sector costs of dengues control activities and the direct costs of hospitalizations in Colombo, the most heavily urbanized and densely populated district in Sri Lanka, during the epidemic year of 2012 from the Ministry of Public Health’‘s perspective. The financial costs borne by public health agencies and hospitals are collected using cost extraction tools designed specifically for the study and analysed retrospectively using a combination of activity-based and gross costing approaches. We found that the total cost of control and reported hospitalizations was estimated at US$3. 45 million ( US$1. 50 per capita ). Personnel costs accounted for the largest shares of the total costs of control activities ( 79% ) and hospitalizations ( 46% ). The results indicated a per capita cost of US$0. 42 per capita for denguing control activities. The average costs per hospitalization ranged between US$216–609 for pediatric cases and between US $196–866 for adult cases according to disease severity and treatment setting. This analysis is a first attempt to assess the economic burden of dudue response in the public healthcare sector in Sri Lank. Country-specific evidence is needed for setting public health priorities and deciding about the deployment of existing or new technologies.
Genome-wide analyses of the Y-chromosomal distribution of haplogroup R1b1b2 ( R-M269 ) have revealed that most European Y chromosomes originate from the Near East during the Neolithic. Previous studies suggested a Paleolithic origin, but here we show that the geographical distribution of diversity within the haplogroups is best explained by spread from a single source in the Near Eastern via Anatolia during the Eolithic. Taken with evidence on the origins of other haploggroups, this indicates that most Y chromosomes originated in the Neogene expansion. This reinterpretation makes Europe a prime example of how technological and cultural change is linked with the expansion of a Y- chromosome lineage, and the contrast of this pattern with that shown by maternally inherited mitochondrial DNA suggests a unique role for males in the transition.
Motor learning is a complex process that can be modeled. It has recently been suggested that movement variability directly increases the speed of motor learning. Here we use computational modeling of motor adaptation to show that variability can have a broad range of effects on learning, both negative and positive. Experimentally, we also find contributing and decelerating effects. Finally, through a meta-analysis of published papers, we verify that across a wide range of experiments, movement variability has no statistical relation with learning rate.
The NF-κB family of inducible transcription factors has emerged as a major player in immune response, activating a plethora of immunoregulatory genes upon stimulation. To activate transcription, RelA ( a prominent NF-KB family member ) interacts with transcriptional co-activators like CREB-binding protein ( CBP ) and its paralog p300 in addition to its cognate κB sites on the promoter/enhancer regions of DNA. The RelA:CBP/p300 complex is comprised of two components—first, DNA binding domain of RelA interacts with the KIX domain of CBP/p100, and second, the transcriptional activation domain ( TAD ) of Rela binds to the TAZ1 domain of the CBP-p300. A phosphorylation event of a well-conserved RelA is prerequisite for the former interaction to occur and is considered a decisive factor for the overall RelA/CBP-p100 interaction. The role of the latter interaction in the transcription of Rel A-activated genes remains unclear. Here we provide the solution structure of the RelA–TA2 complex by NMR spectroscopy. The structure reveals the folding of the TAD–TAZ1 region upon binding to TAZ 1 through its well-constructed hydrophobic sites in a series of grooves on the TA Z1 surface. The structural analysis coupled with the mechanistic studies by mutational and isothermal calorimetric analyses allowed the design of relA-mutants that selectively abrogated the two distinct components of the RELA:cBP/P300 interaction. Detailed studies of these RelA mutants using cell-based techniques, mathematical modeling, and genome-wide gene expression analysis showed that a major set of the genes, larger than previously believed, is affected by this interaction.
Gene set analysis methods are used to analyze changes in gene expression over time. In this paper, we propose the implementation of a method that directly tests the time-course significance of predefined gene sets: the Time-course Gene Set Analysis ( TcGSA ). The method relies on random effects modeling with maximum likelihood estimates. It allows to use all available repeated measurements while dealing with unbalanced data due to missing at random ( MAR ) measurements. Tc GSA is a hypothesis driven method that identifies a priori defined gene sets with significant expression variations over time, taking into account the potential heterogeneity of expression within gene sets. When biological conditions are compared, the method indicates if the time patterns of gene sets significantly differ according to these conditions. The interest of the method is illustrated by its application to two real life datasets: an HIV therapeutic vaccine trial ( DALIA-1 trial ) and data from a recent study on influenza and pneumococcal vaccines. In our simulation study, TCGSA revealed a significant change in gene abundance over time within 69 gene sets during vaccination, while a standard univariate individual gene analysis corrected for multiple testing as well as a standard a Gene Set Enrichment Analysis ( GSEA ) for time series both failed to detect any significant pattern change over time in the first illustrative data set. When applied to the second illustrative dataset, TcGA allowed the identification of 4 gene sets finally found to be linked with the influenza vaccine.
Plasmodium falciparum is the causative agent of malaria in humans and is the main cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite the importance of this parasite, there has been no systematic global assessment of endemicity. The Malaria Atlas Project was initiated in 2005 with an initial focus on P. falcibarum, representing a barrier to rational strategies for control and elimination. Here we present the first systematic effort to map the global endemicity of this hitherto neglected parasite. We first updated to the year 2010 our earlier estimate of the geographical limits of P. vivax transmission. Within areas of stable transmission, an assembly of 9, 970 geopositioned parasite rate surveys collected from 1985 to 2010 were used with a spatiotemporal Bayesian model-based geostatistical approach to estimate endemicity age-standardised to the 1–99 year age range ( PvPR1–99 ) within every 5×5 km resolution grid square. The model incorporated data on Duffy negative phenotype frequency to suppress endemicity predictions, particularly in Africa. Endemicity was predicted within a relatively narrow range throughout the endemic world, with the point estimate rarely exceeding 7% PvPR 1-99. The Americas contributed 22% of the global area at risk of P. vivx transmission, but high endemic areas were generally sparsely populated and the region contributed only 6% of global population at risk. In Africa, Duffy negativity meant stable transmission was constrained to Madagascar and parts of the Horn, contributing 3. 5% global PAR. Central Asia contained areas of the highest endemicity in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea and contributed 9% of Global PAR. This detailed depiction of spatially varying endemicity is intended to contribute to a much-needed paradigm shift towards geographically stratified and evidence-based planning for P. Vivax control and death.
Staphylococcus aureus is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections ( SSTIs ) in humans and the treatment of these infections has become increasingly difficult due to the emergence of antibiotic resistance. The development of an effective anti-S. aureu vaccine offers a potential solution to prevent infection regardless of antibiotics. However, an effective vaccine targeting specific clinical manifestations may need to be pursued. This study identifies ClfB as an important antigen for future SSTI vaccines.
Pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) is one of the five ‘pillars’ set by UNAIDS to achieve a drastic reduction in HIV infections. Despite its advantages, it is costly and requires individuals to adhere to the once-daily regimen. To improve PrEP, many next-generation regimen, including long-acting formulations, are currently investigated. However, pre-clinical testing may not guide candidate selection, since it often fails to translate into clinical efficacy. We overcome the aforementioned limitations by building on recent developments for the simulation of stochastic processes, implementing a numerically exact simulation approach to assess PrEP/PEP efficacy for time-varying drug concentrations ( pharmacokinetics ). Our simulations indicated that oral 50mg oral dolutegravir ( DTG ) is non-inferior to Truvada. Moreover, the predicted 90% preventive concentrations can guide release kinetics of currently developed DTG nano-formulations.
Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) induces autophagy to enhance its replication. However, how HCV regulates the autophagic pathway remains largely unclear. In this report, we demonstrated that HCV could induce the expression of Rubicon and UVRAG, which inhibited and stimulated the maturation of autophagosomes, respectively. The induction of the Rubicon by HCV was prompt whereas the induction of UVRAG was delayed, resulting in the accumulation and the accumulation of autophile vacuoles in the early time points of viral infection. Our results thus indicated that the HCV subgenomic RNA replicon, which expressed only the nonstructural proteins, could also induce both the expression, which enhanced and suppressed autophagous maturation. Further analysis showed that the NS4B protein was sufficient to induce Rubicon, and its over-expression enhanced the autophile maturation and suppressed HCV replication. Our findings thus indicated a mechanism frequently exploited by viruses to control autophagenesis in their host cells for their replication.
Cyclin Y-like 1 ( Ccnyl1 ) is a newly-identified member of the cyclin family and is highly similar in protein sequences to Cyclin Y ( Ccny ). However, the function of Cnyl1 is poorly characterized in any organism. Here we found that CcnYL1 was most abundantly expressed in the testis of mice and was about seven times higher than the level of CcNY. Male Ccnyle1-/- mice were infertile, whereas both male and female Ccnnyl1 mice displayed normal fertility. Further study demonstrated that CCNYL1 interacted with CDK16 and this interaction mutually increased the stability of these two proteins. Moreover, the interaction increased the kinase activity of CDK 16. Our results therefore reveal a previously unrecognized role of CCNY L1 in regulating spermatogenesis and male fertility.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) are global causes of diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome resulting from toxin-mediated microvascular endothelial injury. The toxin is released into the host cells via the outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ), a member of the RTX ( repeats-in-toxin ) family, which is increasingly recognized as a virulence factor of increasingly recognized importance. The OMV-associated toxin is internalized by the host cell via the OMVs, but separates from its carriers and subsequently targets mitochondria, triggering apoptotic cell death as evidenced by DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation in the intoxicated cells. Our study provides the first evidence that OMV/EHEC-Hly, when it is delivered into the hosts via OMVs and acts pro-apoptotically, is an important virulent factor in EHec-mediated pathogenesis of hemolysis. Our data support the model ( Figure 14 ) that OMVs are internalized via dynamin-dependent endocytosis and trafficked into endo-lysosomal compartments, where the toxin is separated from OMVs by a pH drop. The presence of OMVs leads to the breakdown of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential and translocation of cytochrome c to the cytosol. Subsequent activation of caspase-9 triggers apoptotic cells death.
Transcript elongation is a key step in transcription initiation, and transcription initiation is accompanied by conserved patterns of histone modification. Whereas histone modifications have established roles in the transcription initiation step, their functions during elongation are not understood. Mono-ubiquitylation of histones ( H2Bub1 ) plays a key role in coordinating co-transcriptional histone methylation by promoting site-specific methylation of H3. H2 Bub1 also regulates gene expression through an unidentified, methylation-independent mechanism. Here we reveal bidirectional communication between H2bub1 and Cdk9, the ortholog of metazoan positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ), in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We show that lowering Cdk 9 activity or preventing phosphorylation of its substrate, the transcription processivity factor Spt5, reduces H2-Bub 1 in vivo. Conversely, mutation of the histone H2A ubiquitin-acceptor residue relaxes the Cdk4 activity requirement in vivo, and decreases cell-morphology defects. Interestingly, a deletion of the H3K4me methyltransferase Set1, combined with deletion of Spt1, phenocopies morphologic and growth defects due to H2 -Bub2-dependent loss of H2. Together, these results suggest that H2Cdk9-H2BUB1 interdependence ensures a balance between their opposing functions. Loss of H1-H1-dependent phosphorylating of the Cd1 CTD, which is required for transcription initiation in mammalian cells, leads to deranged gene expression and aberrant cell morphologies.
Yellow fever virus ( YFV ) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes severe morbidity and mortality in South America and Africa. To determine the evolutionary history of this important reemerging pathogen, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of the largest YF virus data set compiled to date, representing the prM/E gene region from 133 viral isolates sampled from 22 countries over a period of 76 years. We estimate that the currently circulating strains of the disease arose in Africa within the last 1, 500 years and emerged in the Americas following the slave trade approximately 300–400 years ago. These viruses then spread westwards across the continent and persist there to this day in the jungles of South America. We therefore illustrate how gene sequence data can be used to test hypotheses of viral dispersal and demographics, and document the role of human migration in the spread of infectious disease.
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( the pneumococcus ) is a leading cause of otitis media, pneumonia, and sepsis in infants. The pathogenesis of pneumococcal disease involves multiple stages ( entry, establishment, invasion, exit ) that often begin with the colonization of host surfaces. For organisms without an environmental reservoir, their continued success requires proliferation within their obligate host and transmission to new susceptible hosts. We used an infant mouse model to study the multiple steps involved in pneumococci pathogenesis. We found that in the setting of IAV co-infection the organism must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts. The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it. These observations demonstrate how viral infection, and TLR-dependent innate immune responses it stimulates and that are required to control it, drive bacterial contagion.
Phlebotomus orientalis is an important vector of Leishmania donovani, the causative agent of life-threatening visceral leishmaniasis spread in Eastern Africa. During blood-feeding, sand fly females salivate into the skin of the host. Sand fly saliva contains a large variety of proteins, some of which elicit specific antibody responses in the bitten hosts. To evaluate the exposure to sand fly bites in human populations from disease endemic areas, we tested the antibody reactions of volunteers' sera against recombinant P. orientali salivary antigens. Recombinant proteins derived from sequence data on P. species secreted Salivary proteins, were produced using either bacterial ( five proteins ) or mammalian ( four proteins ) expression systems and tested as antigenes applicable for detection of anti-P. species IgG in human sera. The recombinant proteins mAG5 and mYEL1 were identified as the most promising antigen for screening human seras from Sudan and Ethiopia for exposure to P. ocular leishmania. Combination of both proteins led to a further increase of correlation coefficients as well as both positive and negative predictive values of P. Ocular leichmaniasis exposure. This is the first report of screening human Sera for anti-SGH antibodies using recombinant salivaries.
Infection of bacterial cells by the conjugative plasmids Salmonella genomic island 1 ( SGI1 ) is a major cause of resistance to the antibiotic carbapenems. In this study, we investigated the role of the three genes of SGI 1 in the formation of the mating pore encoded by IncC plasmid. We found that the three TraS subunits are essential for the transfer rate of the helper plasmide. Furthermore, we showed that the TraHS subunit is required for SGI2 to be able to invade cell populations bearing IncC helper Plasmids. Thus, the TraS genes facilitate the invasion by SGI-encoded IncC Plasmid of cells bearing IncA and IncC conjugatives. Our results suggest that SGI has a specific interaction with protein ( s ) and/or DNA of its kin, TraHC and TraGC, to optimize its transfer.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint, in addition to its numerous roles in mitotic progression. The process of adaptation occurs when cells are presented with persistent or irreparable DNA damage and escape the cell-cycle arrest imposed by the DNA repair checkpoint. However, the precise mechanism of adaptation remains unknown. In this study, we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually. We found that the checkpoint sensors, Ddc1 ( a member of the 9-1-1 complex ) and Ddc2, properly localized to damage sites. Mec1 appeared to be active, since the Rad9 adaptor retained its Mec 1 phosphorylation. Moreover, the damage-induced interaction between phosphorylated Rad9 and Rad53 remained intact, consistent with the observation that cell-cycles arrest is lost during adaptation. Thus, we conclude that Cdc 5 acts to attenuate the DNA DNA damage checkpoints through loss of Rad53 hyperphosphorylation to allow cells to adapt to DNA damage.
Neurons generate their electrical signals by exchanging ions with the extracellular space ( ECS ). During normal signaling, neuronal and glial transport mechanisms work towards maintaining ion concentrations close to baseline levels. However, during periods of enhanced neuronal activity or aberrant ion transport may lead to changes in ECS ion concentrations. An understanding of the mechanisms that govern ECS concentration dynamics may be a prerequisite for understanding such pathologies. To estimate the transport of ions due to electrodiffusive effects, one must keep track of both the ion concentrations and the electric potential simultaneously in the relevant regions of the brain. Although this is currently unfeasible experimentally, it is in principle achievable with computational models based on biophysical principles and constraints. In the present work, we present the 3-D Kirchhoff-Nernst-Planck ( KNP ) framework, tailored to explore electrodiffsusive effects on large spatiotemporal scales. By assuming electroneutrality, the KNP-framework circumvents charge-relaxation processes on the spatioteme scales of nanometers and nanoseconds, and makes it feasible to run simulations on the spatial scales of millimeters and seconds on a standard desktop computer. The presented simulation framework is of great use for modeling tissue dynamics in the context of exploring pathological conditions associated with large shifts in ion concentrations in the ECS.
The 2011 U. S. budget cut of $26. 7 million from the CDC vector-borne diseases program could virtually paralyze surveillance and research for mosquito-borne pathogens such as dengue and West Nile virus. In order to demonstrate the consequences of such a measure, if implemented, we evaluated the impact of delayed control responses ( a likely scenario emerging from the proposed CDC budget cut ) in an economically developed urban environment. Our analysis shows that the total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones needed to respond to the introduction of vector borne pathogens, even without consideration of the cost in human lives and well-being. Our study provides strong ammunition from an ethical, economic and scientific standpoint for lawmakers to retain the investments in this cost-effective preventive public health strategy.
Dengue is an emerging infectious disease of global significance. Suspected dengue in Nicaragua’s heavily-urbanized capital of Managua, has been well documented, but unsuspected cases among children and adults with undifferentitated fever has not. To prospectively study dengues in semi-urban and rural western Nicaragua, we obtained epidemiologic and clinical data as well as acute and convalescent sera from a convenience sample ( enrollment Monday to Saturday daytime to early evening ) of consecutively enrolled patients ( n = 740 ) aged ≥ 1 years presenting with acute febrile illness. We found that dengu serotypes 1 and 2 caused illness throughout the year without distinct seasonality. Among 740 febriole patients enrolled, 90% had paired sera. We also found that the dengus seroprevalance increased with age and reached >90% in people over the age of 20 years. Dengue seroprecipitation increased with the age and reach >90 percent in people under the age 20 years, and we identified acute dengut ( serotypes 2 and 3 ) in 38 ( 5. 1% ) patients. Only 8. 1 percent ( 3/37 ) of confirmed cases were suspected clinically. Dengues is an important and largely unrecognized cause of fever in rural western Nicaraguan. Since Zika virus is transmitted by the same vector and has been associated with severe congenital infections, the population we studied is at particular risk for being devastated by the Zika epidemic that has now reached Central America.
Plant-parasitic nematodes are destructive pests causing losses of billions of dollars annually. An effective plant defence against pathogens relies on the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) by surface-localised receptors leading to the activation of PAMP-triggered immunity ( PTI ). Extensive studies have been conducted to characterise the role of PTI in various models of plant-pathogen interactions. However, far less is known about the roles of plant hormones in plant-nematode interactions. In this study, we show that nematode-derived proteinaceous elicitor/s is/are capable of inducing PTI responses in Arabidopsis in a manner dependent on the common immune co-receptor BAK1. Consistent with the role played by BAK 1, we identified a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase, termed NILR1, that is specifically regulated upon infection by nematos. We show that NILRs1 is essential for PTI-induced responses initiated by plant-Nematodes and nilr1 loss-of-function mutants are hypersusceptible to a broad category of nematod pathogens. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying plant-plant-NEMATODO interactions.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the parasite Schistosoma mansoni. The parasite is transmitted by the blood stream of the host and is able to survive in the blood of the infected host. The treatment of schistosome worms with miltefosine has shown promising effects against Schisto mansoni, Schistosa haematobium and Schistomula. However, the mechanism by which miltefsosine exerts its effect is unclear, although it is believed to act mainly on cell membranes producing biophysical perturbation of lipid rafts and interfering with phospholipid metabolism and metabolism. In the current study, we used a rabbit anti-S. mansoni infection antiserum ( anti-SmI ) to detect surface antigens exposed by the drug on the surface of adult worms of S. manson. We found that milteffosine was effective in vitro against adult worm teguments in terms of surface antigen exposure. Antigens involved in this molecular mechanism could have potential to increase the drug’s anti-parasite efficacy and be involved in the development of resistance to re-infection.
Iron is an essential nutrient for most forms of life. In order to obtain iron, bacteria have evolved multiple systems to acquire iron from various sources such as heme, hemoglobin and ferritin. The molecular basis of iron acquisition from heme and hemoglobin have been extensively studied; however, very little is known about iron acquisition. In the human opportunistic pathogen Bacillus cereus, a surface protein named IlsA ( Iron-regulated leucine rich surface protein type A ) is involved in iron acquisition and virulence. In this study, we demonstrate that a bacterial surface protein, IlsB, binds ferritins through direct interaction with the shell subunits of the bacterial surface. Our results highlight a possible interplay between a surface-protein and a siderophore and provide new insights into host adaptation of B. cereus and general bacterial pathogenesis.
Circadian clocks, which allow organisms to anticipate changes in day and night, are a fascinating example of biological rhythms. One of the most studied and best characterized models of circadian oscillations is the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus, which combines a protein synthesis cycle with a protein phosphorylation cycle, and in 2005 the latter was reconstituted in the test tube. Yet, it has remained an open question how the clock is driven thermodynamically. Here, we present a new mathematical model of the clock, based on two main ideas: i ) ATP hydrolysis in the CI domain provides the thermodynamic driving force for the clock. ii ) phosphorylated KaiC binds KaiB, which stabilizes the inactive conformational state of KaiC, and hence leads to the sequestration of KaiA, which leads to KaiC dephosphorylation. The model also naturally explains how KaiA acts as a nucleotide exchange factor, and how KaiC binding to KaiB generates the characteristic temporal order of the KaiC phosphoforms. Our model can describe a wealth of experimental data.
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is a DNA virus that causes chronic hepatitis B virus-associated liver disease. HBV is considered a stealth virus due to its ability to evade host immunity and cause/establish chronic infection. The underlying mechanism explaining how HBV infection fails to induce interferon-αβ ( IFN ) synthesis remained uncharacterized. In this study, we demonstrate that HBV induced parkin is able to recruit the linear ubiquitin assembly complex ( LUBAC ) to mitochondria and abrogates IFN β synthesis. Parkin interacts with MAVS, accumulates unanchored linear polyubiquitin chains on MAVS via LubAC, to disrupt MAVS signalosome and attenuate IRF3 activation in IFN signaling. This study highlights the novel role of parkin in antiviral signaling which involves LUB AC being recruited to the mitochondria. These results provide avenues of investigations on the role of mitochondrial dynamics in innate immunity.
Cells respond to enteric bacteria by binding to proteins known as superantigens ( SAgs ), which activate T cells to activate the immune system. In this study, we determined the structure and functional function of pfiT, a novel enteric SAg. PfiT is a T-cell superantigen associated with Crohn's disease, and its full-length gene product pfT is the human receptor for the class II MHC molecule P. fluorescens. We also determined the structural and functional properties of the pfi-MHC protein, which is a member of the TetR-family of DNA-binding transcription regulators. We found that pfiTs bind HLA-DR, a protein that is important for the development of inflammatory bowel disease. Our structural analysis revealed that pfTs bind to HLADR1, indicating that the binding sites overlap. The distinct structure of pfnT indicates that it represents a new family of T cell SAg, and thus represents a novel family of SAg proteins.
Nanog is a principal pluripotency regulator of embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) in the early blastocyst. Nanog expression has been reported experimentally in mouse embryonic stem cell populations. However, recent evidence points to a functional role of Nanog heterogeneity on stem cell fate decisions. Allelic control of Nanogen gene expression was reported recently in mouse stem cells. To better understand how this mode of regulation influences the observed heterogeneity of NANOG in stem cells, we assembled a multiscale stochastic population balance equation framework to investigate how allelic control affects the observed Nanog distribution. We found that the distribution of NanOG exhibited three distinct states but when combined with transcriptional noise the profile became bimodal. Regardless of their allelic expression pattern, initially uniform populations of stem cells gave rise to the same Nanog phenotype within ten cell cycles. The newly observed regulatory mechanism is shown to be sufficient to give rise to a multimodal distribution of the Nanog gene copies. Our findings underline the role of allelic regulation of gene expression as a prime determinant of stem cell population heterogeneity and warrant further investigation in the contexts of stem stem cell specification and cell reprogramming.
The costs and benefits of protein synthesis are balanced through evolution. Expression of un-utilized protein ( that have no benefits in the current environment ) incurs a quantifiable fitness cost on cellular growth rates; however, the magnitude and variability of this variability is unknown, largely due to the challenge in determining environment-specific proteome utilization. We address this challenge using absolute and global proteomics data combined with a recently developed genome-scale model of Escherichia coli. We show that nearly half of the proteome mass is unused in certain environments and accounting for the cost of this unused protein expression explains >95% of the variance in growth rates. Furthermore, reduction in unused protein is shown to be a common mechanism to increase cellular growth in adaptive evolution experiments. Thus, unused protein encodes several nutrient- and stress- preparedness functions, which may convey fitness benefits in varying environments. Our results suggest that unused protein may be the source of large and pervasive fitness costs that may provide the benefit of hedging against environmental change.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2D ) is a major chronic disease affecting more than 300 million people worldwide. The greatest increase in the prevalence of T2d in the coming years is likely to be in Asia, home to half of the world's population with 3 billion people. The advent of large-scale genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) has identified a number of novel loci harboring common variants that are associated with an increased risk of type 2D. However, these GWAS have focused on populations of European descent, and GWAS conducted in other populations with different ancestry offer a unique opportunity to study the genetic architecture of the disease. Here we describe three separate genome-based surveys of type2D in Chinese, Malays and Asian Indians in Singapore. We found that the genetic variants identified in previous GWAS were not associated with the disease, and that the association signals were attenuated significantly in our study and in studies conducted in European populations. These findings highlight the value of surveying across diverse racial/ethnic groups towards the fine-mapping efforts for the casual variants and also of the search for variants, which may be population-specific.
Chromosome segregation ensures faithful transmission of the genetic material to subsequent generations. This process is powered by the dynamic interactions of the centromere-kinetochore complex and the mitotic spindle. The microtubule organizing centers ( MTOCs ) and microtubules influence the spindle positioning and functioning of the cytoplasmic MTs. In this work, we show that the evolutionarily conserved Aurora B kinase Ipl1 localizes to the nucleus upon the breakdown of the nuclear envelope during mitosis in C. neoformans. We show that a perturbation in the cytosolic Bim1/dynein activity or localization of Ipl 1 results in a significant delay in kinetochor clustering and nuclear migration. We propose that the timely breakdown of nuclear envelope by IPl1 allows its own nuclear entry that helps in spatio-temporal regulation of nuclear division and prevents aneuploidy-associated drug resistance.
Synonymous mutations continue to be filtered out from most large-scale cancer genome studies, but several lines of evidence suggest they can play functionally relevant roles in neoplastic disease. We investigated a case of an aggressive, apparently sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) harboring a somatic RET p. Cys634Arg mutation ( a known MTC driver ). A germ-line RET substitution ( p. Cys630= ) had also been found but was considered clinically irrelevant because of its synonymous nature. Next generation sequencing revealed that the RET mutations were in cis. There was no evidence of gene amplification. Expression analysis found an increase of RET transcript in p. cys630 =;p. Cym634 Arg patient compared with that found in 7 MTCs harboring p.Cys633 mutations. Minigene expression assays demonstrated that the presence of the synonymous RET mutation was sufficient to explain the increased RET mRNA level. In silico analyses and RNA immunoprecipitation experiments showed that the synonymous substitution created new exonic splicing enhancer motifs that enhanced SRp55 recruitment to the mutant allele, leading to more efficient maturation of its pre-mRNA and an increased abundance of mature mRNA encoding a constitutively active RET receptor. These findings document a novel mechanism by which synonymous mutations can contribute to cancer progression.
Next-generation sequencing ( NGS ) has emerged as a valuable tool for the diagnosis of human infections. In this study, we developed a new method for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens. We applied this method to identify and remove human, bacterial, archaeal, viral, and viral genomes present in a comprehensive database of all sequenced Eukaryote pathogen genomes. We also removed low-coding genomic sequences, another source of false positives. Using this pipeline, we have produced a database of “clean” eUKaryotic pathogen genome sequences for use with bioinformatics classification and analysis tools.
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) remains a major health problem in Uganda. There are recurrent sporadic outbreaks in the traditionally endemic areas in south-east Uganda, and continued spread to new unaffected areas in central Uganda. We evaluated the evolutionary dynamics underpinning the origin of new foci and the impact of host species on parasite genetic diversity in Uganda and southwestern Kenya. We found evidence of ongoing genetic exchange between T. brucei isolates from Uganda and Kenya, separating the isolates into three genetic clusters. The analyses also show evidence of genetic admixture among the three genetic groups and long-range dispersal, suggesting recent and possibly on-going gene flow between them. Our results show that the expansion of the disease to the new focuses in central and southern Uganda occurred from the northward spread of T. b. rhodesiense ( Tbr ), with evidence of recent genetic exchange among isolates. These results suggest that cattle are an important intermediary in the transmission of human infective and non-infective strains in the region, as well as the importance of cattle as Tbr reservoir, as confounders that shape the epidemiology of sleeping sickness in this region.
Thioredoxin-interacting protein ( TXNIP ) has multiple functions, including tumor suppression and involvement in cell proliferation and apoptosis. However, its role in the inflammatory process remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that Txnip−/− mice are significantly more susceptible to lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced endotoxic shock. In response to LPS, TxNip produced significantly higher levels of nitric oxide ( NO ) and inducible nitric Ox synthase ( iNOS ). In addition, we observed that excessive NO due to the absence of TXNip regulated the activation and translocation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. This regulation is mediated through changes in the activation of NF-κB that affect the NF-KB/iNOS pathway. Subsequently, the survival of mice was significantly decreased due to hypothermia and hypoglycemia. Overall, the elucidation of this pathway identifies a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
Genome instability is a hallmark of cancer cells and a critical feature that enables tumor progression. Genome instability often accompanies the disruption of DNA repair genes as the failure in DNA repair permits an increased rate of chromosome breakage and mutagenesis. Therefore, understanding the molecular basis for DNA damage response ( DDR ) and DSB repair ( DSBR ) within the germline is highly important. Here we define ZTF-8, a previously uncharacterized protein conserved from worms to humans, as a novel factor involved in the repair of both mitotic and meiotic DSBs as well as in meiotic DNA damage checkpoint activation in the C. elegans germline. We show that ZTF is required for both functions of the 9-1-1 DDR complex and for the activation of the CEP-1/p53-dependent germ cell apoptosis pathway. We propose a conserved function for ZTF in DDR by transducing DNA damage checkpoints signaling via the 9.1-2 pathway.
During tissue development, multipotent progenitors differentiate into specific cell types in characteristic spatial and temporal patterns. We addressed the mechanism linking progenitor identity and differentiation rate in the neural tube, where motor neuron ( MNs ) differentiate more rapidly than other progeny. Using single cell transcriptomics, we identified a pivotal role for the MN determinant Olig2 just prior to the differentiation of MN progensitors. We used these data to reconstruct and validate the differentiation trajectory from scRNA-seq data that provides much greater temporal resolution of the transcriptional dynamics during MN generation than previously available. We identified a sequence of distinct phases in MN differentiation that coincided with changes in gene expression profiles, which coincided with the expression of the Notch signaling pathway effectors Hes1 and Hes5. Olig1 expression appears to be direct, via a conserved regulatory element within the Hes5 locus that restricts expression from MN progenitators. These findings reveal a tight coupling between the regulatory networks that control patterning and neuronal differentiation and demonstrate how Olig 2 acts as the developmental pacemaker coordinating the spatial and time-dependent pattern of MN generation.
The emergence and rapid spread of a novel triple reassortant H1N1 influenza virus in April 2009 raised fears of a new and severe pandemic. Early reports from Mexico suggested that the 2009 virus might be more pathogenic than typical seasonal strains. More troublingly, few individuals under age 65 appeared to have antibodies capable of recognizing the emerging virus. Here we use a nonhuman primate model to show that prior infection with seasonal human influenza viruses induces strong cross-reactive T cell responses that are rapidly recalled, and in some animals, boosted in magnitude upon challenge with H2N1pdm. We speculate that cross-resistance T cell immune responses may be the primary effector of early virus clearance in macaques.
Q fever is the most widespread zoonosis that is caused by Coxiella burnetii. It is not only difficult to distinguish from other febrile diseases because of the lack of specific clinical manifestations in humans, but it is also difficult to identify the disease in C. burneti-carrying animals because of its lack of identifiable features. Conventional serodiagnosis requires sera from the acute and convalescent stages of infection, which are unavailable at early diagnosis. Nested PCR and real-time PCR require equipment. In this study, we developed a Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification ( LAMP ) assay to detect the repeated sequence IS1111a of the htpAB gene of C. burnsetii using PrimerExplorer V4 software. The sensitivity of the LAMP assay was evaluated using known quantities of recombined reference plasmids containing the targeted genes. The specificity of the developed LAMP was 100%, and no cross-reaction was observed among the bacteria used in the study. The LAMP is a potential tool to support the diagnosis of Q fever in humans and domestic animals in the field, especially in the rural areas of China, because it requires a high-precision thermal cycler.
Cancer cells often display gene expression profiles resembling those of undifferentiated cells. The mechanisms controlling these expression programs have yet to be identified. Exploring transcriptional enhancers throughout hematopoietic cell development and derived cancers, we uncovered a novel class of regulatory epigenetic mutations. These epimutations are particularly enriched in a group of enhancers, designated ES-specific enhancers ( ESSEs ), of the hematoiatic cell lineage. We found that ESSE methylation is associated with gene transcriptional activity in cancer. Strikingly, ESSE chromatin is hypermethylated in cancer relative to normal somatic cells and co-localized with silenced genes, whereas unmethylated ESSE are hypomethylated. These findings suggest that ES-related enhancers provide a framework for gene activity from which cancers may further select their expression repertoire.
Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness, but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis. We investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau. We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration, and does not require significant size changes of the demes, environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure. We demonstrate that subdivision can significantly accelerate crossing for whole classes of fitness valleys and plateaus. We study the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of the parameter range over which it occurs. Our results, obtained for fitness valley and plateau crossing, also hold for weakly beneficial intermediate mutations. Finally, we extend our work to the case of a population connected by migration to one or several smaller islands.
Dengue viruses ( DENV ) are transmitted to humans via feeding on the blood of an infected human. The transmission cycle of DENV depends on the ability to replicate efficiently in several mosquito tissues. The metabolic environments within these tissues play crucial roles in these processes. Since these viruses are enveloped, viral replication, assembly and release occur on cellular membranes primed through the manipulation of host metabolism. Interference with this virus infection-induced metabolic environment is detrimental to viral replication in human and mosquito cell culture models. Here we present the first insight into the metabolic environment induced during arbovirus replication in Aedes aegypti. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we have analyzed the temporal metabolic perturbations that occur following dengue virus infection of the midgut tissue. We observed a marked increase in the lipid content. An increase in glycerophospholipids, sphingolipid and fatty acyls was coincident with the kinetics of viral replication. Elevated levels of acyl-carnitines were observed, signaling disruptions in mitochondrial function and possible diversion of energy production. This study also resulted in the first reconstruction of the sphingolsipid pathway in Ae. ae.. Given conservation in the replication mechanisms of several flaviviruses transmitted by this vector, our results highlight biochemical choke points that could be targeted to disrupt transmission of multiple pathogens by these mosquitoes.
In order to understand the underlying mechanisms of fatal cardiac arrhythmias, we need to understand how the cardiac pacemaker responds to external stimuli. We have developed a simple “parsimonious” model for the rabbit heart based on experimental data from a variety of species under physiological conditions. We show that this model is mathematically identifiable ( i. e., not over parameterized ) by combining a novel Hodgkin-Huxley formulation of INa with a phenomenological model of repolarization similar to the voltage dependent, time-independent rectifying outward potassium current ( IK ). Simulations reproduced several important “emergent” phenomena including cellular alternans at rates > 250 bpm as observed in rabbit myocytes, reentrant spiral waves as observed on the surface of the heart, and spiral wave breakup. The model was calibrated using the following experimental data sets measured from the same species ( rabbit ) under physiological circumstances: dynamic current-voltage ( I-V ) relationships during the AP upstroke; rapid recovery of AP excitability during the relative refractory period; and steady-state INa inactivation via voltage clamp. The simplicity of the model, and the fact that its parameters have physiological meaning, make it ideal for engendering generalizable mechanistic insight and should provide a solid “building-block” to generate more detailed ionic models to represent complex rabbit electrophysiology.
During the sexual cycle of the ciliate Paramecium, assembly of the somatic genome includes the precise excision of tens of thousands of short, non-coding germline sequences ( Internal Eliminated Sequences or IESs ), each one flanked by two TA dinucleotides. It has been reported previously that these genome rearrangements are initiated by the introduction of developmentally programmed DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ). In this study, we demonstrate that two DSB complexes, one at each end, initiate IES excision. We demonstrate that Ligase IV and Xrcc4p, core components of the non-homologous end-joining pathway ( NHEJ ), are required both for the repair of IES and for the circularization of excised IES. We also show that nucleophilic attack of the other IES boundary by the free flanking DNA could directly assemble a MAC junction and liberate a linear IES, as proposed for the related ciliate Tetrahymena. Taken together, our data indicate that the remarkable precision in end joining is largely driven by the characteristic structure of the broken ends generated during IES recombination. This work broadens our current view on how the cellular NHE J pathway has cooperated with domesticated transposases for the emergence of new mechanisms involved in genome dynamics.
Chagas heart disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) remains a burden for public health systems in Latin American countries. The precise understanding of current natural history of patients presenting systolic dysfunction is indispensable to plan adequate health politics and improve survival. Therefore, we sought to study the mode of death of patients with heart failure caused by Chagas Heart disease, comparing with non-ChagAS cardiomyopathy. We examined the REMADHE trial and grouped patients according to etiology ( ChagAS vs non- ChagAs ) and mode of mortality. The primary end-point was all-cause, heart failure and sudden death mortality; 342 patients were analyzed and 185 ( 54. 1% ) died. Death occurred in 56. 4% Chags patients and 53. 7% non-chagas patients. The cumulative incidence of all-causing mortality and heart failure mortality was significantly higher in Chags compared to non-Cagas. There was no difference between the two groups. In the Cox regression model, chagas etiology, LVEDD ( left ventricular end diastolic diameter ) ( HR 1. 07; CI 1. 04–1. 10; p<0. 001 ), creatinine clearance ( HR 0. 98; CI 0. 97–0. 99; p = 0. 014 ) and use of amiodarone ( HR 3. 05; CI 2. 47–6. 34; p.=0. 03 ) were independently associated with heart function. In severe heart failure, progressive heart failure is the most important mode of life. These data challenge the current understanding of Chagus heart disease and may have implications in the selection of treatment choices, considering the mode.
Viruses are a group of plant viruses with single-stranded DNA genomes that may be organized either in single- or double-component configuration. In the case of geminiviruses, one of the largest and most successful families of plant virus, the identification of host functions subverted by viral proteins has uncovered novel components from distinct layers of innate host defenses, as adenosine kinase ( ADK ) and sucrose non-fermenting1 ( SNF1 ) which mediate metabolic defenses possibly linked to gene silencing mechanisms. Here we describe a novel strategy of plant defense response against virus. We identified a ribosomal protein, rpL10A, as a specific partner and substrate of NIK1 that functions as an immediate downstream effector of NSP-mediated response. Phosphorylation of cytosolic rpl10A by NIK directs the protein to the nucleus where it may act to modulate viral infection. We also provide evidence that geminovirus infection directly interferes with NIK-mediated nuclear relocalization of rp2, which may be involved in nonhost immunity for other viruses.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermal dimorphic pathogenic fungus that at environmental temperature grows as a mold producing conidia. Once inhaled by the host, these fungal cells reach the lung alveoli were they interact with epithelial cells and alveolar macrophages. In this study, we evaluated the role of alternative oxidase ( AOX ), an enzyme involved in the intracellular redox balancing, during host-P. brasilensis interaction. We generated a mitotically stable AOX-antisense ( PbAOX ) antisense RNA ( aRNA ) strain with a 70% reduction in gene expression. In the presence of H2O2, we observed that conidia and yeast cells increased PbAAOX gene expression and presented a higher viability in comparison with PbWt yeast cells. These data further support the hypothesis that PbAsOX is important in the fungal defense against oxidative stress imposed by immune cells and is relevant in the virulence of P. brasiliens.
The hippocampus forms a neural representation of the local environment using a dual rate and position code: Each pyramidal neuron is active when an animal is located within a distinct location in space, and its mean firing rate within this location varies with contextual features like the color or shape of enclosing walls. The spatial map of place cells encodes contextual information through firing rate variability. To test whether memories are stored as multimodal attractors in populations of place cell ensembles, recent experiments morphed one familiar context into another while observing the responses of CA3 place cells. We found that CA3 cells were able to transition gradually rather than abruptly from one familiar environment to the next, suggesting a lack of attractive forces associated with the two stored representations. On the other hand, individual CA3 neurons showed a mix of gradual and abrupt transitions at different points along the morph sequence, and some displayed hysteresis which is a signature of attractor dynamics. To understand whether these seemingly conflicting results are commensurate with attractor network theory, we developed a neural network model of the CA3 with attractors for both position and discrete contexts. Our results suggest that context-dependent memory can be supported by overlapping local attractors within a spatial map. Similar mechanisms may also be found in other regions of the cerebral cortex.
Entamoeba histolytica is a microaerophilic protozoan parasite that causes amebic colitis and extra intestinal abscesses in millions of inhabitants of endemic areas. It is now well established that most microbial and higher eukaryotic cells have the ability to cope with oxidative stress by altering global expression of antioxidants and other metabolic enzyme encoding genes at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. However, it remains unknown how E. histolyticica and other organisms that lack fully functional anti-oxidative defense systems, such as catalase and glutathione system, respond to oxidative stress at the metabolic level. In the present study, we investigated global metabolic responses in E. Histolyticus in response to H2O2- and paraquat-mediated oxidative stress. We found that oxidative stress caused drastic modulation of metabolites involved in glycolysis, chitin biosynthesis, and nucleotide and amino acid metabolism. Oxidative stress resulted in the inactivation of several key metabolic enzymes, leading to the redirection of metabolic flux towards glycerol production, chiotin biosynthetic pathway, and the non-oxygenative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway. We also showed for the first time the presence of functional glycerols biosynthesis pathway, which is important in regulating observed metabolomic changes.
The tumor suppressor IKAROS is a transcription factor critical for hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper hematopic differentiation. In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex, it promotes gene repression and activation. It remains to be clarified how I KAROS can support transcription activation while being associated with the HDAC-containing complex NuRD. Here, we demonstrate that NuRD and P-TEFb are assembled in a complex that can be recruited to specific genes by IKarOS. The expression level of IKARSOS influences the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFsb complex to gene regulatory regions and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1α ( PP1α ), an IK receptorOS-binding protein and P1α activator, to CDK9. We show that an I KarOS mutant that is unable to bind PP1β cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differentiation of IkNULL hematopsies. Finally, the knock-down of NuRD subunit Mi2 reveals that the occupancy of the N-terminal region of genes favors the relief of POL II promoter-proximal pausing and thereby, promotes transcription elongating.
Bat rabies is an emerging disease of public health significance in the Americas. The Caribbean island of Trinidad experiences periodic outbreaks within the livestock population. We performed molecular characterisation of Trinidad rabies virus ( RABV ) and used a Bayesian phylogeographic approach to investigate the extent to which outbreaks are a result of in situ evolution versus importation of virus from the nearby South American mainland. We found that the Trinidad outbreaks most likely originate from rabid D. rotundus ( vampire bat ) bats. The Trinidad I lineage which included sequences from 1997–2000 ( all but two of which were from the northeast of the island ) was most closely related to RABVs from Ecuador ( 2005, 2007 ), French Guiana ( 1990 ) and Venezuela ( 1993, 1994 ). Trinidad II comprised sequences from 2000 and 2007, which clustered into two groups: Trinidad IIa, which included one sequence each from 2000, 2007, and Trinidad IIb, including all 2010 sequences. These data also indicate co-circulation of Trinidad lineage I and IIa during 2000. In light of these findings and the likely vampire bat origin of Trinidadian rabies, further studies should be conducted to investigate how the vectors of rabies are transmitted between the mainland and Trinidad.
The cerebral cortex is a complex but extremely precise structure. In adult, it is divided into several functionally distinct areas characterised by different combinations of gene expression, specialised cytoarchitecture and specific patterns of input and output connections. However, our understanding of the regulatory interactions between these genes that lead to their confinement to particular spatial patterns is currently qualitative and incomplete. We therefore used a computational model to determine which interactions, and combinations of interactions, occur in networks that reproduce the anterior-posterior expression patterns observed experimentally. The model treats expression levels as Boolean, reflecting the qualitative nature of the expression data currently available. We simulated gene expression patterns created by all possible networks containing the five genes of interest. We found that only of these networks were able to reproduce the experimentally observed expression patterns. These networks all lacked certain interactions, including auto-regulation and inductive loops, and were therefore good experimental targets for further experimental investigations. Our analysis reveals important principles underlying the gene network regulating cortical area development, and makes novel predictions that can be tested experimentally and experimentally in a more realistic model.
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins control organism development by regulating the expression of developmental genes. Transcriptional regulation is achieved, at least partly, through the PRC2-mediated methylation of histone H3 ( H3K27 ) and PRC1-mediated ubiquitylation on lysine 119 of histones H2A ( uH2A ). As an integral component of PRC, Bmi1 has been demonstrated to be critical for H2-dependent H3A ubiquititylation. Although recent studies have revealed the genome-wide binding patterns of some of the PRCs and PRCs components, as well as the H3 K27me3 mark, there have been no reports describing genome-specific localization of uH3A. Using the recently developed ChIP-Seq technology, here, we report genome-wise localization of the Bmi-dependent uH1 mark in MEF cells. Gene promoter averaging analysis indicates a peak of u2A just inside the transcription start site ( TSS ) of well-annotated genes. This peak is enriched at promoters containing the H1K27me2 mark and represents the least expressed genes in WT MEF. In addition, peak finding reveals regions of local uH 2A enrichment throughout the mouse genome, including almost 700 gene promoters. Our work not only reveals Bmi2A-dependent transcriptional regulation, but also suggests that DNA methylation may be linked to uH4A. Thus, our work uncovers previously unrecognized features of the epigenetic mark.
Noncoding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) are emerging as significant players in the regulatory circuitry of the cell, rivaling their protein-coding counterparts. Accumulating data have revealed the functional diversity of ncRNA, in particular long noncoding RNA ( lncRNAs ), and their relevance in regulating development and disease. Previous efforts to understand the function of lnc RNAs have predominantly focused on small/short RNAs. However, in the past few years there has been an increased focus on lncRNA, as large-scale analyses have revealed an abundance of these molecules in more complex organisms. In this study, we show that mPINC, a member of the chromatin-modifying PRC2 complex, is highly expressed in alveolar cells of the mammary gland during pregnancy and downregulated in early lactation. MPINC levels decline upon lactogenic hormone-induced differentiation of the involuted gland, while knockdown of mPinc enhances differentiation. Finally, we identify potential targets of pregnancy-induced noncoded RNA ( PINC ) that are differentially expressed following modulation of pINC levels. Taken together, our data suggest that mPsINC inhibits alveololar progenitor cells during pregnancy to prevent abundant milk production and secretion until parturition. Additionally, a PRC 2 complex that includes mPIN and RbAp46 may provide epigenetic modifications that maintain a population of mammary epithelial cells committed to the alveoleolar fate in the involuting gland.
Prison factors are cellular proteins that directly counteract viral replication. In this study, we show that HIV-1 infection triggers the formation of PML cytoplasmic bodies, which are characterized by a rapid re-localization of the PML protein. PML is mainly expressed in the nucleus, where it forms dynamic structures known as PML nuclear bodies that recruit many other proteins, such as Sp100 and Daxx. We show that infection by HIV-2 triggers a rapid translocation of the PRL protein, leading to the formation PML bodies. Furthermore, we demonstrate that PML interferes with an early step of retroviral infection by preventing the accumulation of reverse-transcripts. Importantly, we also show that DaxX is the restriction factor that is able to inhibit retrotransposition of endogenous retroviruses. Altogether, our findings unravel a novel antiviral function for PML and PML NBs and reveal Daxxon as a novel cellular inhibitor of reversetranscription.
Protein structure alignment programs are designed to address two related problems: the alignment problem, where the input is a set of k proteins that have a conserved structural common core, and the output consists of a superimposition of the proteins in 3-D space, coupled with the list of which amino acid residues are declared to be in alignment and part of the core. We introduce the program Matt ( Multiple Alignment with Translations and Twists ), which, in intermediate steps, allows local flexibility between fragments: small translations and rotations are temporarily allowed to bring sets of aligned fragments closer, even if they are physically impossible under rigid body transformations. After a dynamic programming assembly guided by these “bent” alignments, geometric consistency is restored in the final step before the alignment is output. Matt is tested against other recent multiple protein structure alignment program on the popular Homstrad and SABmark benchmark datasets. Matt's global performance is competitive with the other programs on Homstrads, but outperforms the other program on SABmarks, a benchmark of multiple structure alignments of proteins with more distant homology. On both datasets, Matt demonstrates an ability to better align the ends of α-helices and β-strands, an important characteristic of any structure alignment algorithm intended to help construct a structural template library for threading approaches to the inverse protein-folding problem.
In mitosis, cells exit mitosis by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of more than thousand proteins by Cdk1 and other mitotic kinases. The phosphatase PP2A/B55δ is required for its activation. In human cells the phosphatases that target this phosphatatase are poorly understood. In this study we use mathematical modelling and experiments to study the dynamics of the Greatwall, Ensa/ARPP19 and Cdk substrate phosphorylating during mitotic entry and exit. We show that PP2a/B5α is required to dephose phosphorylate the essential Cdk site Thr194. Inactivation of PP2 a second phosphatace, Fcp1, is required. Surprisingly, inhibition or depletion of neither Fcp2A nor PP2B appears to block depholylation of the bulk of mitotic Cdk substrates during mitosis. Taken together our results suggest a hierarchy of phosphatas coordinating Greatwall and Ensa, Ena/ARP19 and their substrates.
The HIV-1 subtype C Env is a highly conserved glycoprotein that encodes the envelope ( Env ) glycoproteins gp120 and gp41. Env contains the principal targets for neutralizing antibodies ( Nab ), and epitopes are targeted in both Env subunits. However, many potential neutralization targets are transiently or not exposed on the trimeric form of virion-associated Env, including the V3 domain, CD4-induced epitopes, and the CD4 binding site. Here we demonstrate that Nab escape from autologous Nab occurs despite the development of high titer autologously Nab in two subjects with acute/early subtype A infection. In one subject, Nab escape was driven predominantly by changes in the region of gp120, which extends from the beginning of the V1 domain to the end of V5 domain ( V3V5 ). In the second subject, escape was primarily driven by changes of the region in V1V2, and this V1v2-dependent escape pathway was retained over time, and its utility was reflected in the virus's ability to escape from two distinct monoclonal antibodies ( Mabs ) derived from this same patient via introduction of a single potential N-linked glycosylation site in V2. Spatial representation of the sequence changes in gp120 suggested that selective pressure acted upon the same regions of Env in these two subjects, even though the Env domains that drove escape were different. Together the findings argue that a single mutational pathway is not sufficient to confer escape in the early stages of infection, and support a model in which multiple strategies, including potential glycan shifts, direct alteration of an epitope sequence, and cooperative Env domain conformational masking, are used to evade neutralization.
The extent to which both positive and negative selection vary across different portions of plant genomes remains poorly understood. Here, we sequenced whole genomes of 13 Capsella grandiflora individuals and quantify the amount of selection across the genome. Using an estimate of the distribution of fitness effects, we show that selection is strong in coding regions, but weak in most noncoding regions, with the exception of 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ). Additionally, we find stronger negative selection in high expression genes compared to low expression genes. Finally, using expression data from leaf tissue, we demonstrate that genes that are more highly expressed experience stronger positive selection but comparable levels of positive selection to lowly expressed genes. Overall, we observe widespread positive and positive selection in coding and regulatory regions, and our results also suggest that both negative and negative selective on plant noncoder sequence are considerably rarer than in animal genomes.
Epstein-Barr Virus ( EBV ) is a human tumor virus that infects B-lymphocytes and establishes latent infections that can give rise to malignancies. EBV encodes several transcriptional co-activators that modulate host and viral gene transcription. EBNA2 is a transcriptional regulator that is expressed in early stages of EBV-induced proliferation of naïve B-cells, but its expression is extinguished at later stages of B-cell development. We show here that EBV encoded transcriptional cooperator EBNA 2 drives the cooperative and combinatorial genome-wide binding of two master regulatory transcription factors, EBF1 and RBP-jκ. This co-activation is mediated by the formation of new binding sites co-occupied by these transcription factors. These newly induced binding sites correlate strongly with transcriptional activation of linked genes that are important for B-lemphoblast function. Conditional expression or repression of EBNA1 leads to a rapid alteration in RBP and EBF 1 binding sites. These findings reveal that EBNA-encoded transcription factors can function as pioneer factor ‘scouts’ that reorient chromosome occupancy for client pioneer proteins, like RBP. E. B..., and are likely to have different patterns of transcription factor occupancy and gene programming necessary to drive EBV lymphoblast growth and survival.
Aedes aegypti is the main mosquito vector of the four serotypes of dengue virus ( DENV ). Previous population genetic and vector competence studies have demonstrated substantial genetic structure and major differences in the ability to transmit dengues viruses in Ae. aedesi populations in Mexico. Population genetic studies revealed that the intersection of the Neovolcanic axis ( NVA ) with the Gulf of Mexico coast in the state of Veracruz acts as a discrete barrier to gene flow. The mosquito populations north and south of the NVA also differed in their vector competence ( VC ) for DENV2, which revealed considerable variation in vector competence. The same mosquitoes from populations from south of NVA were the most vector competent. Most of this variation was attributable to a midgut infection and escape barriers. In the case of Ae. Aegyptis north of the VIC, 21. 5% of mosquitoes failed to develop midguts infections and 30. 3% of those with an infected Midgut failed to produce a disseminated infection. These results suggest that vector competence for DENVs may be a barrier that restricts gene flow in the long term. Further studies are warranted to determine why the NVC is a barrier to vector competence and to determine whether the differences in vector competency seen north and South of the Gulf are stable.
The DnaA protein is a prokaryotic initiator protein that is required for the initiation of replication. It has been suggested that DnaAs are the main components of the cell cycle motor. In this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier. It does not. Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of ATP are more likely to initiate replication. We suggest that although ATP-dnaA is the main actor in initiation of the replication, its accumulation does not control the time of initiation. We also investigated the inactivation of Dnaa and the Dna-binding protein DiaA. We found that the concentration in the cell does not affect the timing of initiation in any of the growth conditions tested. This suggests that the DNAA protein, although it constitutes the key feature of the cellular cycle motor, is not the limiting factor for precise timing of replication in response to the cell’s environment.
In neurophysiology, there is a long history of recording neural dynamics by recording at the single neuron, neuronal network and brain area levels. Based upon such experimental data, how to explore the network structure of genes, proteins, neurons, etc, is one of the most important issues in Systems Biology. Recently, many novel approaches in molecular biology have been invented to improve the bulk-scale methods that measure average values for a population of genes or proteins and mask their dynamical activities which are critical for the function of cells–[4]. One of the key properties of Geweke's formulation is that the summation of the Granger causality in the time domain equals the Granger causal relationship in the frequency domain. This is due to the Kolmogrov equation for frequency decompositions. We show that the partial Granger causal is robust against latent variables and exogenous inputs, in comparison with the quantities such as the conditional Granger causally etc. The results indicate that partial Granger causalality is able to reveal the right causal relationship whereas PDC fails. Our results suggest that there are different frequencies in the recorded brain activity and their interactions give rise to different cognitive functions.
Inferring the ancestry at each locus in the genome of recently admixed individuals ( e. g. Latino Americans ) plays a major role in medical and population genetic inferences, ranging from finding disease-risk loci, to inferring recombination rates, to mapping missing contigs in the human genome. Although many methods for local ancestry inference have been proposed, most are designed for use with genotyping arrays and fail to make use of the full spectrum of data available from sequencing. In addition, current haplotype-based approaches are very computationally demanding, requiring large computational time for moderately large sample sizes. Here we present a new method to infer local ancestry in fully sequenced individuals. Our approach incorporates the admixed genomes themselves jointly with public datasets, such as 1000 Genomes, to improve the accuracy of CSV calling. We use simulations to show that our approach attains accuracy similar to widely used computationally intensive haplotype based approaches with large decreases in runtime. We extend our approach to sub-continental population-specific variants ( sCSVs ) and show that in some cases it is possible to determine the subcontinental ancestry for short chromosomal segments on the basis of sCSV.
In mammals, circadian periodicity has been described for gene expression in the hypothalamus and multiple peripheral tissues. It is accepted that 10%–15% of all genes oscillate in a daily rhythm, regulated by an intrinsic molecular clock. Statistical analyses of periodicity are limited by the small size of datasets and high levels of stochastic noise. Here, we propose a new approach applying digital signal processing algorithms separately to each group of genes oscillating in the same phase. Combined with the statistical tests for periodicity, this method identifies circadian baseline oscillation in almost 100% of genes. Consequently, circadian oscillation should be evaluated in any study related to biological pathways. Changes in gene expression caused by mutations or regulation of environmental factors ( such as photic stimuli or feeding ) should be considered in the context of changes in the amplitude and phase of genetic oscillations.
Recombination is an important process in evolutionary biology and genetics. While the outcome of crossover recombination can readily be detected as shuffled alleles by following the inheritance of markers in pedigreed families, the more precise location of both crossover and non-crossover recombination events has been difficult to pinpoint. As a consequence, we lack a detailed portrait of the recombination landscape for most organisms and knowledge on how this landscape impacts on sequence evolution at a local scale. We performed whole-genome re-sequencing of a complete three-generation collared flycatcher pedigree. We identified 325 crossovers at a median resolution of 1. 4 kb, with 86% of the events localized to <10 kb intervals. Observed crossover rates were in excellent agreement with data from linkage mapping, were 52% higher in male ( 3. 56 cM/Mb ) than in female meiosis, and increased towards chromosome ends in male but not female meiotic. Crossover events were non-randomly distributed in the genome with several distinct hot-spots and a concentration to genic regions, with the highest density in promoters and CpG islands. We further identified 267 non-Crossovers, whose location was significantly associated with crossover locations. We detected a significant transmission bias ( 0. 18 ) in favour of ‘strong’ ( G, C ) alleles over ‘weak’ alleles ( A, T ) at NCO events, providing direct evidence for the process of GC-biased gene conversion in an avian system. The approach taken in this study should be applicable to any species and would thereby help to provide a more comprehensive portray of the genome landscape across organism groups.
Many proteins are nearly periodic. Instead of being formed by ‘apparently random’ amino acid sequences, repeat-proteins are made up of tandem arrays of similar stretches, usually between 20 and 40 amino acids in length. In ‘physiological’ conditions, these polypeptides fold up into elongated architectures of repeating structural motifs that stack one upon the next producing extended superhelical structures. In the present study we present a general description of repeat-protein energy landscapes based on a formal Ising-like treatment of the elementary interaction energetics in and between foldons, whose collective ensemble are treated as spin variables. The overall folding properties of a complete “domain” ( the stability and cooperativity of the repeating array ) can be derived from this microscopic description. The one-dimensional nature of the model implies there are simple relations for the experimental observables: folding free-energy ( ΔGwater ) and the cooperativity ( m-value ), which do not ordinarily apply for globular proteins. We show how the parameters for the “coarse-grained” description in terms of foldon spin variables can be extracted from more detailed folding simulations on perfectly funneled landscapes.
Hepatitis, obesity, and alcoholism all represent major risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ). Although these conditions also lead to integrated stress response ( ISR ) or unfolded protein response ( UPR ) activation, the extent to which these stress pathways influence the pathogenesis of HCC has not been tested. Here we provide multiple lines of evidence demonstrating that the ISR-regulated transcription factor CHOP promotes liver cancer. We show that CHOP expression is up-regulated in liver tumors in human HCC and two mouse models thereof. Chop−/− mice are resistant to chemical hepatocarcinogenesis, and these mice exhibit attenuation of both apoptosis and cellular proliferation. Chop-null mice are also resistant to fibrosis, which is a key risk factor for HCC. Global gene expression profiling suggests that deletion of CHOP reduces the levels of basal inflammatory signaling in the liver. Our results are consistent with a model whereby CHOP contributes to hepatic carcinogenesis by promoting inflammation, fibrosis and compensatory proliferation. These results implicate CHOP as a common contributing factor in the development of human hepatic cancer.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) is a chronic infectious skin disease caused by a group of protozoan parasites of the Leishmania genus. The disease can present with a spectrum of clinical manifestations. Ulcerative skin lesions occurring at the site of the bite of the sandfly is the most common cutaneous manifestation ( localized CL—LCL ). While usually healing spontaneously after several months, it remains disfiguring and stigmatizing and often heals with scarring. There are several more rare forms like diffuse CL ( DCL ), which is often difficult to treat. Mucosal leishmania is a zoonotic disease, mainly occurring in the highland regions, involving rock hyraxes as reservoir. In Ethiopia, the disease predominantly affects children, with the majority of cases caused by L braziliensis. In this study, we conducted a systematic review of clinical studies reporting on treatment episodes of CL due to L aethiopica. We identified a total of 24 records reporting on 506 treatment episodes. The most commonly used drugs were antimonials ( n = 201 ), pentamidine and miltefosine. Pentamidine appeared effective against complicated CL, also in cases non-responsive to antimonial drugs. We also identified two small and/or poor quality randomized controlled trials conducted a long time ago. The only potentially effective treatment options for DCL seem to be paromomycin in combination or pentamine, but none have been properly evaluated.
Circadian clocks are self-sustained biochemical oscillators that underlie daily rhythms of sleep/waking, metabolic activity, gene expression, and many other biological processes. These oscillators are difficult to explain by known biochemical reactions, and the ultimate explanation for the mechanism of these unusual oscillators will require characterizing the structures, functions, and interactions of the molecular components of circadian clocks. We analyze the molecular basis of this oscillator by quantifying the time-dependent interactions of three proteins ( KaiA, KaiB, and KaiC ) by electron microscopy and native gel electrophoresis to elucidate the timing of the formation of complexes among the Kai proteins. The data are used to derive a dynamic model for the in vitro oscillator that accurately reproduces the rhythms of KaiA complexes and of KaiC phosphorylation, and is consistent with biophysical observations of individual Kai protein interactions. We use fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) to confirm that monomer exchange among KaiC hexamers occurs. The model demonstrates that the function of this monomer exchanges may be to maintain synchrony among KaiCs in the reaction, thereby sustaining a high-amplitude oscillation.
The human brain has a tremendous amount of trial-to-trial variability in both brain activity and behavioral output. Thus far, the vast majority of event-related potential ( ERP ) studies investigating the relationship between trial- to-trial fluctuations in brain activity have only tested a monotonic relationship between them. However, it was recently found that across-trial brain variability can correlate with behavioral performance independent of the trial-averaged activity. This finding predicts a U- or inverted-U- shaped relationship between trials and behavioral performance, depending on whether larger brain variability is associated with better or worse behavior. Using electrocorticography ( ECoG ) in patients undergoing invasive brain monitoring for neurosurgical treatment, we found strong evidence for such a phenomenon in the human brain. Using a visual stimulus detection task, we provide evidence for an inverted- U-shaped relationship between the raw fluctuation in broadband ECoGs activity and performance. Importantly, we show that this relationship is present not only in the post-stimulus task-evoked brain activity, but also in the spontaneous brain activity. Our findings are consistent with the presence of stochastic noise in the brain. They further support attractor network theories, which postulate that the brain settles into a more confined state space under task performance, and proximity to the targeted trajectory of the brain is associated to better performance.
Sexual reproduction is a key evolutionary innovation of eukaryotes. In many species, mating involves interaction between compatible mating partners that can undergo cell and nuclear fusion and subsequent steps of development including meiosis. Mating compatibility in fungi is governed by the mating type ( MAT ) loci. In basidiomycetes, the ancestral state is hypothesized to be tetrapolar, with two genetically unlinked MAT loci containing homeodomain transcription factor genes ( HD and P/R locus ) and pheromone receptor genes, respectively. Alleles at both loci must differ between mating partners for completion of sexual development. However, there are also basidiaomycete lineages with bipolar mating systems, which can arise through genomic linkage of the HD and R loci, and bipolarity is found only in the pathogenic Cryptococcus species. Here, we describe the analysis of MAT locus from 24 species of the Trichosporonales, a sister order to the Tremellales. In all of the species analyzed, the MAT locs are fused and a single HD gene is present in each mating type, similar to the organization in the Pathogenic Cryptic lineages. However the HD gene combinations in the TrICHosporons are different from those found in the Cryptococci. This and the existence of tetrapolasmic species suggest that fusion of the HAD and POR loci occurred independently in the two groups, supporting the hypothesis of convergent evolution towards fused MAT regions.
Chagas disease is a major vector-borne parasitic disease in Latin America, with 9. 8 to 11 million infected people, 60 million at risk of infection, and a disease burden of over 800, 000 DALYs. Regional initiatives based on residual insecticide spraying have successfully controlled domiciliated vectors in many regions. However, non-domiciliated vector remain responsible for a significant transmission risk, and their control is now a key challenge for disease control. A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in insecticide abundance inside houses. Demographic parameters were estimated by fitting the model to two years of field data from the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. The predictive value of the model was tested on an independent data set before simulations examined the efficacy of control strategies based on insect screens, insect screens and bednets. The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticides. Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season. The >80% reduction in bug abundance was not improved by larger doses or more frequent interventions, and it decreased drastically for different timing and lower frequencies of intervention. The use of insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate. Insect screens appear to offer an effective and sustainable alternative, which may be part of multi-disease interventions for the integrated control of neglected vector diseases.
Feathers are arranged in a precise pattern in avian skin. They first arise during development in a row along the dorsal midline, with rows of new feather buds added sequentially in a spreading wave. We show that the patterning of feathers relies on coupled fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) and bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) signalling together with mesenchymal cell movement, acting in a coordinated reaction-diffusion-taxis system. This periodic patterning system is partly mechanochemical, with mechanical-chemical integration occurring through a positive feedback loop centred on FGF20, which induces cell aggregation, mechanically compressing the epidermis to rapidly intensify FGF 20 expression. The travelling wave of feather formation is imposed by expanding expression of Ectodysplasin A ( EDA ), which initiates the expression of BMP. The EDA wave spreads across a mesenchyal cell density gradient, triggering pattern formation by lowering the threshold of cells required to begin to form a feather bud. These waves, and the precise arrangement of feather primordia, are lost in the flightless emu and ostrich, though via different developmental routes. In flighted birds, the key role of the EDA/Ectodymal receptor ( EDAR ) pathway in vertebrate skin patterning has been recast to activate this process in a quasi-1-dimensional manner, imposing highly ordered pattern formation.
The 2013–15 Ebola virus disease outbreak was unprecedented due to sustained transmission within urban environments and thousands of survivors. In 2014 the World Health Organization stated that there was insufficient evidence to give definitive guidance about which body fluids are infectious and when they pose a risk to humans. We report a rapid systematic review of published evidence on the presence of filoviruses in body fluids of infected people and survivors. Scientific articles were screened for information about filovirus in human body fluids ( viral RNA ). The aim was to find primary data that suggested high likelihood of actively infectious virus in human bodies fluids. Eligible infections were from Marburg virus ( MARV or RAVV ) and Zaire, Sudan, Taï Forest and Bundibugyo species of Ebola. Infection had to be laboratory confirmed ( in practice either tissue culture or RT-PCR tests ), or evidenced by compatible clinical history with subsequent positivity for filoviral antibodies or inflammatory factors. Data were extracted and summarized narratively. 6831 unique articles were found, and after screening, 33 studies were eligible. For most body fluids there were insufficient patients to draw strong conclusions, and prevalence of positivity was highly variable. Infections were usually negative, even when culture-positive. Contact with blood and blood-stained body fluids remains the major risk for disease transmission because of the known high viral loads in blood.
The voltage trace of real neurons can follow multiple timescale dynamics that arise from correlated membrane conductances. Such processes can result in power-law behavior in which the membrane voltage cannot be characterized with a single time constant. The emergent effect of these membrane correlations is a non-Markovian process that can be modeled with a fractional derivative. A fractional derivatives and integrals are almost as old as traditional calculus, and they have not been widely used due to limited computer power. In this work we developed and analyzed a model that can reproduce spike adaptation with power law dynamics. The model reproduces the upward and downward spike adaptation found experimentally in neocortical pyramidal neurons and tectal neurons in vitro. We further analyze spike adaptation and the responses to noisy and oscillatory input. Overall, the spiking activity of the fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model deviates from the Markovian model and reflects the temporal accumulated intrinsic membrane dynamics that affect the response of the neuron to external stimulation.
Paracoccidioides is one of the most important pathogenic fungi in Latin America. The fungus is a member of the Paracoccidaides family and is capable of killing host effector cells by the expression of superoxide dismutases ( SODs ). In this study, we identified six SOD isoforms encoded by Paracococcidiosides’ genome and determined gene expression of representative isolates of the phylogenetic lineages of Paracaccidioide spp. ( S1, PS2, PS3 and Pb01-like ) using quantitative RT-PCR. Assays were carried out to analyze SOD gene expression in yeast cells, mycelia cells, the mycelias-to-yeast transition and the yeast-mycelia germination, as well as under treatment with oxidative agents and during interaction with phagocytic cells. We observed an increased expression of PbSOD1 and PBSOD3 during the transition process and exposure to oxidative agents, suggesting that these proteins could assist in combating the superoxide radicals generated during the host-pathogen interaction. Altogether, our data suggests that P. brasiliensis actively responds to the radicals generated endogenously during metabolism and counteracts the oxidative burst of immune cells.
Intrinsically disordered/unstructured proteins ( IDPs ) are extremely sensitive to proteolysis in vitro, but show no enhanced degradation rates in vivo. Their existence and functioning may be explained if IDPs are preferentially associated with chaperones in the cell, which may offer protection against degradation by proteases. To test this inference, we took pairwise interaction data from high-throughput interaction studies and analyzed to see if predicted disorder correlates with the tendency of chaperone binding by proteins. Our major finding is that disorder predicted by the IUPred algorithm actually shows negative correlation with the effect of chapersone binding in E. coli, S. cerevisiae, and metazoa species. Since predicted disorder positively correlates with chapersones, the difference between the disorder of chapone-binding and non-binding proteins is even more pronounced if normalized to their overall tendency to be involved in pairwise protein–protein interactions. We argue that chaperon binding is primarily required for folding of globular proteins, as reflected in an increased preference for chaperons of proteins in which at least one Pfam domain exists. In terms of the functional consequences of chaps, we suggest that its primary reason is not the assistance of folding, but promotion of assembly with partners.
The wing imaginal disc is an epithelial tissue that grows by cell proliferation during the larval development of the fly, and differentiates the wing and half of the thorax during pupal development. The growth and patterning of this tissue depends on the activity of signalling pathways acting in a context-dependent manner. Among these pathways, the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signalling pathway specifies the central region of the wing blade, its growth and its patterning. Several targets and additional components of the transcriptional regulation events triggered by Dpp signalling have been identified in Drosophila. The identification of candidate Salm and Salr target genes, and the analysis of their functions, are critical steps towards understanding the genetic control of growth and development of this epithelium by the Dpp pathway.
Centriole duplication is the primary mechanism by which centrosome number is controlled, and involves building a new daughter centriole adjacent to each pre-existing mother centrioles. Centrioles are limited to occurring only once per cell cycle, and only a single daughter is assembled in association with each pre–existing centriol. In this study we have identified two conserved protein phosphatase 1 ( PP1 ) regulators, I-2 and SDS-22, as key regulators of ZYG-1 protein levels. We find that down-regulation of PP1 activity either directly, or by mutation of szy-2 or sds-22 can rescue the loss of centroole duplication associated with a zyg-1 hypomorphic allele. Suppression is achieved through an increase in ZYg-1 levels, and our data indicate that PP1 normally regulates ZYGs-1 through a post-translational mechanism. While moderate inhibition of PP 1 activity can restore centriose duplication to a zy-1 mutant, strong inhibition of PKP1 activity leads to centrioly amplification via the production of more than one daughter. Our results thus define a new pathway that limits the number of daughter centrooles produced each cycle.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonotic disease caused by Leishmania infantum, which is transmitted by sand flies and domestic or wild vertebrates. In Brazil, VL is a rapidly expanding zoonosis that shows increasing urbanization. Concern exists regarding the role of wildlife in the transmission of VL, due to frequent natural or anthropogenic environmental changes that facilitate contact between wildlife, humans and their pets. The municipality of Campinas, in southeastern Brazil, initially recorded VL in 2009, when the first autochthonous case was confirmed in a dog living in an environmentally protected area ( EPA ) within the municipality. Since then, disease transmission remains restricted to dogs inhabiting two geographically contiguous condominiums within the EPA. We conducted a cross-sectional study of the VL focus to investigate Leishmann spp. infection in domestic dogs, wild mammals and sand flies using molecular tools and recommended serological techniques. Canine seroprevalences of 1. 5% and 1. 2% were observed in 2013 and 2015, respectively. Six insect species, confirmed or suspected vectors or potential transmitters, were identified. Two specimens of the main L. ( L. ) infantum vector in Brazil, Lutzomyia longipalpis, were captured in the EPA, demonstrating proximity between these animals, human residences, including the dogs positive for VL, and forest areas. The EPA, where humans are considered the main reservoir in the urban environment, has an active VL control focus. The risk of establishing and maintaining disease transmission foci in similar scenarios, i. e. wild areas that undergo environmental modifications, is evident. Moreover, different epidemiological profiles of V L. must be included to elaborate prevention and control measures that consider the particularities of each transmission area.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is an oncogenic virus that is closely associated with several human malignancies, including Burkitt's lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, extra-nodal nasal natural killer/T cell lymphoma ( NKTCL ) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ). EBV-encoded RNAs ( miRNAs ) are a family of small RNA molecules that negatively regulate the expression of protein-coding genes and play critical roles in orchestrating diverse cellular processes. However, not all tumor tissues express these viral oncoproteins, suggesting that other mechanisms may contribute to the aggressive behavior of NPC tumor cells. In the present study, we used gain- and loss-of-function approaches to investigate the effect of miR-BART9 in EBV and EBV–positive NPC tissues. In vitro analyses showed that the miR BART9 directly repressed E-cadherin, a cell-cell adhesion molecule that is pivotal for maintaining an epithelial cell phenotype and acts as a suppressor of tumor metastasis, to exert its promigratory activity. Our results indicated that the promigrative activity of miRs-Bart9 may be a prometastatic viral miRNA and provide novel insight into how EBV modulates cellular genes and contributes to NPC pathogenesis.
Alternative splicing is the process through which different combinations of exons of the same gene are selected to produce a variety of mature coding and non-coding transcripts. The genome-wide landscape of alternative splicing can be easily profiled by RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ), and tens of thousands of different RNA sequencing experiments are now publicly available. The visualization of splicing events is currently not dynamically integrated in common genome browsers, and stand-alone software are annotation-dependent. In this study, we present ggsashimi, a command-line tool for the visualization of the splicing event across multiple samples. It is freely available at https://github. com/guigolab/ggsashimi and internally generates R code for plotting.
The spatial-temporal expression pattern of a gene is controlled by its regulatory sequences, sometimes called a cis-regulatory module ( CRM ). A CRM contains a number of transcription factor binding sites ( TFBSs ), which read the expression level of the cognate transcription factors ( TFs ) and drive the appropriate expression pattern through the combinatorial interactions among TFs, their co-factors and the basal transcriptional machinery. Cross-species comparison plays a central role in various problems involving cis-regulation sequences, including computational prediction of CRM sequences, discovery of novel sequence motifs, and exploration of the principles of regulatory sequence evolution. We present a computational framework that uses this model to solve the problems of CRMs alignment and prediction. Our alignment method is similar to existing methods of statistical alignment but uses the conserved binding sites to improve alignment. Our CRM prediction method deals with the inherent uncertainties of binding site annotations and sequence alignment in a probabilistic framework. In simulated as well as real data, we demonstrate that our program is able to improve both alignment and predictions of CRMS sequences over several state-of-the-art methods. Our approach is implemented as software, EMMA ( Evolutionary Model-based cis-Regulatory Module Analysis ) ready to be applied in a broad biological context.
Transposons and other selfish DNA elements can be found in all phyla, and mobilization of these elements can compromise genome integrity. The piRNA ( PIWI-interacting RNA ) pathway silences transposons in the germline, but it is unclear if this pathway has additional functions during development. Here we show that mutations in the Drosophila piRNA pathway genes, armi, aub, ago3, and rhi, lead to extensive fragmentation of the zygotic genome during the cleavage stage of embryonic divisions. Additionally, aus and armi show defects in telomere resolution during meiosis and the cleave divisions; and mutations in lig-IV, which disrupt non-homologous end joining, suppress these fusions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation studies show that aub and armis mutations disrupt telomeres binding to HOAP, which is a component of the telomre protection complex, and reduce expression of a subpopulation of 19–22 nt piRNAs. Mutations in rhi and ago3 also do not block HOAP binding or production of these piRNA genes. These findings uncover genetically separable functions for the piRNA pathways, and suggest that this process is directed by a subspecies of 19- to 22-nt piRNA-specific genes.
Ebola hemorrhagic fever ( HF ) outbreaks are a major public health problem in Africa, with case fatalities ranging from 53% to 90%. In November 2007, HF cases were reported in Bundibugyo District, Western Uganda. Laboratory investigation of the initial 29 suspect-case blood specimens by classic methods ( antigen capture, IgM and IgG ELISA ) and a recently developed random-primed pyrosequencing approach quickly identified this to be an Ebola HF outbreak associated with a newly discovered ebolavirus species. This new virus was identified using a broadly reactive Ebolaviridae antigen capture assay known to cross-react with the different ebolovirus species and an IgM capture assay based on Zaire ebolAVirus. Due to the sequence divergence of this new virus relative to all previously recognized ebolviruses, these findings have important implications for design of future diagnostic assays to monitor Ebola HF disease in humans and animals, and ongoing efforts to develop effective antivirals and vaccines.
Alzheimer's Disease ( AD ) is a progressive disease that affects millions of people worldwide. The disease is caused by a variety of genetic, behavioral, and functional impairments, and it is difficult to determine whether or by how much it delays the deterioration caused by AD. The Global Deterioration Scale ( GDS ) and Functional Assessment Staging procedure ( FAST ) characterize seven stages in the course of AD from normal aging to severe dementia. Each stage has a published mean duration, but the variance is unknown. We use statistical analysis to reconstruct GDS/FAST stage durations in a cohort of 648 AD patients with an average follow-up time of 4. 78 years. Calculations for GDS and FAST stages 4–6 reveal that the standard deviations are comparable with their mean values, indicating the presence of large variations in the AD progression among patients. Such amount of heterogeneity in the progression of AD is consistent with the existence of several sub-groups of AD patients, which differ by their patterns of decline.
The adult mammalian brain contains two areas, the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb. One important distinction between these two areas is that neurogenesis is thought to be part of a neuronal turnover. Neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus is believed to be an additive process where new units are added to an expanding network. In our own work we have examined the functional role of additive neurogeneration in the hippocampal memory model. We show that additive neurogengenesis was a more effective adaptation strategy compared to neuronal turnover and conventional synaptic plasticity as it allowed the network to respond to changes in the input statistics while preserving representations of earlier environments. We then show that a more biologically plausible neurogenetics rule that incorporates cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells has an overall performance significantly better than any one of the three individual strategies operating alone. This adaptation rule can be tailored to maximise performance of the network when operating as either a short- or long-term memory store.
African trypanosomes are extracellular parasitic protozoa with a digenetic life cycle. The mitochondrion is the primary source of endogenously produced superoxide anion, which is primarily removed by glutathione peroxidases ( GPxs ). The lysosome is the organelle that plays a crucial role by harbouring the alternative oxidase, the final acceptor of reducing equivalents generated during glycolysis, as well as the machinery for iron sulfur cluster biogenesis. In this study, we show that the cytosolic thiol peroxide-type enzymes protect the lysoome from oxidative damage and that they protect it from iron-induced membrane peroxidation. The mechanism underlying the rapid cell death remained elusive. In vivo experiments confirmed the negligible role of the mitochondrial Px III in the infective stage of the parasite. In vitro experiments revealed that the mitochondrial px III is fully dispensable for parasitism and identified a master role for the cytotoxic peroxids in protecting the mitochondrions. The respective knockout of the px I–II−/− T. brucei in the procyclic insect form resulted in cells that were fully viable in Trolox-free medium. The discovery of this unprecedented biological role of cytosol peroxides is expected to have strong impact on respective studies in other human pathogens and the mammalian host.
Proteins are essential for the production of pigment cells. In this study, we show that a mutation in the Pmel gene in mice causes a loss of pigment cell function. This loss-of-function mutation is associated with reduced levels of eumelanin in melanosomes. In addition, we demonstrate that this mutation is not a complete loss of PMEL function, and that mutations in Pmel homologs that render a loss- of-function have no visible effects on pigmentation. The present study provides a substantial advance in understanding the role of a non-functional PMEL in vertebrates and provides a reasonable explanation why only a single Pmel mutation has been described in mice compared with the fairly high number of mutations at most other pigmentation loci.
Vector control remains the primary method to prevent dengue infections. Environmental interventions represent sustainable and safe methods as there are limited risks of environmental contamination and toxicity. The objective of this study is to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of the following environmental methods for dengu vector control. The systematic review was conducted using the databases PubMed, EMBASE, LILACS, the Cochrane Library and Google Scholar. Quality assessment was done using the CONSORT 2010 checklist. The difference-in-differences ( DID ) and the difference-of-endlines ( DOE ) were calculated according to the Schmidt-Hunter method for the Breteau index and the pupae per person index ( PPI ). Both studies showed a weak effect of the interventions on larval populations, with no obvious differences between the results of each individual method. Each of the investigated environmental methods showed some effectiveness in reducing larval and pupal densities of Aedes sp. mosquitoes. However, there is a need for more comparable high-quality studies at an adequate standard to strengthen this evidence.
Proteins are the main druggable therapeutic targets for the treatment of human diseases, ranging from metabolic disease, to cancer and dementia. However, many proteins remain “undruggable” due to the difficulty in identifying small molecule or biological inhibitors of their function. A new class of compounds has been identified that selectively stalling the translation of PCSK9, a major regulator of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Although some of these compounds hold potential for future therapeutic development, it is not known how they impact the physiology of cells or ribosome quality control pathways. Here, we used a genome-wide CRISPRi screen to identify proteins and pathways that modulate cell growth in the presence of high doses of a selective PCSK 9 translational inhibitor, PF-06378503 ( PF8503 ). We found that two of the most potent genetic modifiers of cell fitness in the absence of PF850 3, the ubiquitin binding protein ASCC2 and helicase ASCC3, bind to the ribosomal A site in the 60S subunit and protect cells from toxic effects of high concentrations of the compound. Surprisingly, translation quality control proteins Pelota ( PELO ) and HBS1L sensitize cells to treatment with this compound. Taken together, these results identify new connections between ribosom quality control and cell fitness, and provide new insights into the selectivity of compounds that stall human translation that will aid the development of next-generation selective translation stalling compounds to treat disease.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is the most recently discovered human herpesviral and the etiologic agent of several neoplasms, the most prominent of which is Kaposi's Sarcoma ( KS ). The virus is a large double-stranded DNA virus that undergoes both latency and lytic replication. KSHv SOX induces global messenger RNA ( mRNA ) degradation via a unique mechanism involving aberrant mRNA polyadenylation. Transcripts in SOX-expressing cells exhibit extended poly ( A ) polymerase II-generated poly (A ) tails and polyadenylec-generated mRNA turnover. Polyadenylated mRNA turnover is intimately linked to the activity of SOX, and inhibition of poly ( As ) tail formation blocks SOX activity. Both nuclear and cytoplasmic poly ( a ) binding proteins are critical cellular cofactors for SOX function, the latter of which undergoes striking nuclear relocalization by SOX. Thus, the mechanism of KshV-induced mRNA turnover therefore represents both a novel mechanism of host shutoff as well as a new model system to probe the regulation of poly-A- tail-stimulated mRNA turnover in mammalian cells.
The type III interferon ( IFNλ ) receptor is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens, however no data are available concerning its role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens. Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa induced significant production of ILNλ in the lung, and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased in IL-28R null mice compared to controls. Improved bacterial clearance correlated with reduced lung pathology and a reduced ratio of pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokines in the airway. In human epithelial cells, IFNFλ inhibited miR-21 via STAT3 resulting in upregulation of PDCD4, a protein known to promote inflammatory signaling. In vivo 18 hours following infection with either pathogen, miR+21 was significantly reduced and PDCD 4 increased in the lungs of wild type compared to IL- 28R null. Infection of PD CD4 null mice with USA300 resulted in improved clearance, reduced pathology, and reduced inflammatory cytokine production. These data suggest that during bacterial pneumonia IFN may promote inflammation by inhibiting miR−21 regulation of PDCR4.
The clinical management of HAT has always been confronted with the issue of treatment efficacy, drug toxicity and mortality risk factors. In the process of assigning the probable cause of death to disease progression, treatment side effects, or any other factors including but not limited to coexistent pathology, the assessment of clinical status on admission among the baseline characteristics may be crucial. We conducted a retrospective study on mortality trends and risk factors in 781 naïve cases of advanced stage-2 sleeping sickness admitted between 1989 and 2012 at the National Reference Center for Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ), Department of Neurology, Kinshasa University, Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ). Death was the outcome variable whereas age, gender, duration of disease, location of trypanosomes in body fluids, cytorachy, protidorachy, clinical status ( assessed on a syndromic and functional basis ) on admission, and treatment regimen were predictors in logistic regression models run at the 0. 05 significance level. Death proportions were 17. 2% in the standard melarsoprol schedule ( 3-series of intravenous melarsopsoprol on 3 successive days at 3. 6 mg/kg/d, ARS 9 ) ; 12. 1% in NECT treatment regimen ( eflornithine for 7 days at 400, mg/g/d in 2 infusions a day combined with oral nifurtimox for 10 days at 15 mg/mg/d ) and 9. 1 percent in the group with select severely affected patients. The algorithm for initial clinical status assessment used in the present study may serve as the basis for further development of standardized assessment tools relevant to the clinical management.
In humans, isolation is thought to profoundly influence the response to stress, as shown in humans, monkeys, mice and fruit flies. Social interactions range from simple touch contacts as seen in Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster ( fruit flies ) and other animals, to the most complex social behaviors of primates including human beings. In order to study social behavior in the fly, for example the effects of isolation on behavior and metabolism, a few key challenges remained open and needed to be addressed. In this paper, we describe an effective and reliable tracking and analysis pipeline for large groups of flies that we use to unravel the behavioral, molecular and physiological impact of isolation. We apply this pipeline to study behavioral changes due to isolation and correlate these with changes in genome-wide gene expression and animal physiology.
The emergence of mobile technology offers new opportunities to improve clinical guideline adherence in resource-limited settings. We conducted a clinical pilot study in rural Bangladesh to evaluate the impact of a smartphone adaptation of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) diarrheal disease management guidelines, including a modality for age-based weight estimation. Software development was guided by end-user input and evaluated in a resource-restricted district and sub-district hospital during the fall 2015 cholera season; both hospitals lacked scales which necessitated weight estimation, and the calculator did not capture basic information to calculate the recommended treatment plan ( aka age, gender, watery/bloody stool, five clinical signs of dehydration, allergies, and danger signs ). Standard of care was maintained throughout the study with the exception that admitting clinicians used the calculator during the intervention. The primary outcome was adherence to guidelines for prescriptions of intravenous fluids, antibiotics and zinc. The calculator did, however, provide a safe decrease in IV fluid use while prescriptions for other antibiotics decreased; zinc adherence increased. Limitations included an absence of a concurrent control group and no independent dehydration assessment during the pre-intervention. Despite limitations, opportunities were identified to improve patient care, including better assessment, weight estimation and fluid/ antibiotic selection. These findings demonstrate that a smartphone-based tool can improve guideline adherence. This study should serve as a catalyst for a randomized controlled trial to expand on the findings.
Climate change is likely to affect the dynamics of infectious disease, as both host and parasite traits can be strongly affected by temperature. However, the effects of temperature on host–parasite interactions are difficult to predict, because temperature can have differing thermal dependencies for a range of traits. Using experimental data from Daphnia magna and a microsporidian parasite, we fitted a mechanistic model of the within-host parasite population dynamics to experimental data. Model parameters comprising host aging and mortality, as well as parasite growth, virulence, and equilibrium abundance, were specified by relationships arising from the metabolic theory of ecology. The model effectively predicts host survival, parasite growth and the cost of infection across temperature while using less than half the parameters compared to modeling temperatures discretely. Our results serve as a proof of concept that linking simple metabolic models with a mechanistically host–Parasite framework can be used to predict temperature responses of parasite populations.
The brain is composed of a large number of different types of interneurons that are essential for the normal functioning of the brain. These interneuron types play an important role in shaping the activity of excitatory pyramidal cells ( PCs ). How the various inhibitory cell types contribute to neuronal information processing, however, is not resolved. Here, we propose a functional role for a widespread network motif consisting of parvalbumin- ( PV ), somatostatin- ( SOM ) and vasoactive intestinal peptide ( VIP ). We show that mutual inhibition between PV and SOM cells translates weak inputs onto VIP interneurs into large changes of somato-dendritic inhibition of PCs. Moreover, we show that the neuronal and synaptic properties of the circuit support this hypothesis. We demonstrate that the SOM-VIP motif allows transient inputs to persistently switch the circuit between two processing modes, in which top-down inputs onto apical dendrites of PCs are either integrated or cancelled.
Microbiota are essential to any ecosystem be it the ocean or the human gut. To understand how microbes affect the host phenotype, we need to understand how they affect the environment. To do this, we have developed a statistical method to detect indirect associations between microbes and the disease. We applied this method to a large dataset of pediatric inflammatory bowel disease and found that only a small subset of indirect associations could be explained by interspecific interactions rather than disease. Direct associations had a much higher accuracy in separating cases from controls and pointed to immunomodulation, butyrate production, and the brain-gut axis as important factors in the disease, suggesting that the dysbiosis of the symbiotic microbiota makes it less competitive against other bacteria and opens up niches that can be colonized by opportunistic pathogens.
Dengue virus ( DENV ), West Nile virus ( WNV ) and Plasmodium parasites are currently studied using three Wolbachia infection systems: naturally infected Wolbachiae hosts, hosts transinfected with Wolbachias ( stably maintained and inherited infections ), and hosts transiently infected with the virus. All three systems have been used to test the effect of the virus on mosquito transmitted pathogens such as dengue, DENV and Plasmmodium. In this study, we compared the effects of the viral infection in Wolbachiosis infected mosquitoes with the infection in the wild type ( W. aegypti ) and transient infected mosquitoes. We found that the virus infection was significantly reduced in both the transient and transient infection models, however, the magnitude of the blocking effect was significantly lower in mosquitoes transiently or stably infected with Wolbia. More importantly, no evidence was found for any enhancement of either DENV or WNV ( Kunjin strain ) infection in mosquitoes infected with wAlbB. These results indicate that Wolbachial infection models are an effective and safe means for restricting transmission of these viruses.
Cilia are microtubule-based cellular organelles that mediate signal transduction. Cilia are organized into several structurally and functionally distinct compartments: the basal body, the transition zone ( TZ ), and the cilia shaft. In vertebrates, the cystoprotein Inversin localizes to a portion of the cilium adjacent to the TZ, a region termed the “Inversin compartment” ( InvC ). The mechanisms that establish and maintain the InvC are unknown. In the roundworm C. elegans, the ciliary shafts of amphid channel and phasmid sensory cilia are subdivided into two regions defined by different microtubules ultrastructure: a proximal doublet-based region adjacent to TZ and a distal singlet-based area. It has been suggested that C. worms cilia also possess an InvC, similarly to mammalian primary cilia. Here we explored the biogenesis, structure, and composition of the C. elegans ciliary doublet region and InvC. The InvC is conserved and distinct from the doublet, and that components in these two regions interact to regulate ciliogenesis via cilia placement, ciliary microtubulins, and protein localization. The ciliary targeting and restricted localization of NPHP-2, ARL-13, and UNC-119 does not require TZ-, doublet regions, and NPHPs-2 does require its calcium binding EF hand domain.
The myelin sheath in the central nervous system ( CNS ) is a multilamellar elongation of the plasma membrane formed by oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming cells of the CNS, that allows for the rapid conduction of action potentials along axons. In this study, we demonstrate that the basal polarity complex protein Scribble is required for myelin initiation and myelin remodelling in CNS. We demonstrate that Scribble acts to negatively regulate myelin thickness whilst suppressing the extracellular signal-related kinase ( ERK ) /mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase pathway, and localises to non-compact myelin flanking the node of Ranvier where it is essential for paranodal axo-glial adhesion. These findings demonstrate an essential role for the evolutionarily-conserved regulators of intracellular polarity in myelination and remyelination.
Streptolysin S ( SLS ) is a bacteriocin-like haemolytic and cytotoxic virulence factor that plays a key role in the virulence of Group A Streptococcus ( GAS ), the causative agent of pharyngitis, impetigo, necrotizing fasciitis and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome. Although it has long been thought that SLS and related peptides are produced by GAS and related strepsococci only, there is evidence to suggest that a number of the most notorious Gram-positive pathogenic bacteria, including Listeria monocytogenes, Clostridium botulinum and Staphylococcus aureus, produce related peptide. The distribution of the L. monocytic cluster is particularly noteworthy in that it is found exclusively among a subset of lineage I strains; i. e., those responsible for the majority of outbreaks of listeriosis. Expression of these genes results in the production of a haemoletic and cytolytic factor, designated Listeriolysin S, which contributes to virulence. Thus, in the process of establishing the existence of an extended family of SLS-like modified virulence peptides ( MVPs ) that are responsible for virulence, the genetic basis for the enhanced virulence may have been revealed.
Mycetoma is a chronic granulomatous inflammatory disease caused either by fungi or by bacteria. Characteristic of this disease is that the causative agents organise themselves in macroscopic structures called grains. These grains are surrounded by a massive inflammatory reaction. The processes leading to this host tissue reaction and the immunophenotypic characteristics are not known. Due to the massive immune reaction and tissue remodeling involved, we hypothesised that the expression levels of interleukin-17 ( IL-17 ) and matrix metalloprotease-9 ( MMP-9 ) were correlated to the severity of the disease and that this correlation was independent of the causal agent responsible for the granuloma reaction. To determine the expression level of IL17 and MMP in the mycetomas lesions, the present study was conducted at the Mycetomatis Research Centre, Sudan. Surgical biopsies from 100 patients with confirmed mycete were obtained, and IL- 17 and Mmp-9 expression were evaluated immunohistochemically. MMP9 was mainly expressed in Zones I and II, and far less in Zone III. IL17 was detected mainly in the Zones II and III, and the least expression was in Zone I. The only significant association between MMP 9 and the patients’ characteristics was the disease duration.
Molecular recognition by intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) typically involves specific localized contacts and target-induced disorder to order transitions. However, some IDPs remain disordered in the bound state, a phenomenon termed “fuzziness”, often characterized by IDP polyvalency, sequence-insensitivity and a dynamic ensemble of disordered bound-state conformations. Besides the above general features, specific biophysical models for fuzzy interactions are mostly lacking. Herein we tested the polycation-π hypothesis experimentally and theoretically in molecular simulations that are based on cation-π contacts between the Ewing's Sarcoma oncoprotein family ( EAD ) and a generic folded target. We found broad agreement between EAD functionality and simulated EAD binding. Moreover, the activity trends observed are well captured by a coarse-grained EAD chain model and a corresponding analytical model based on EAD aromatics and surface cations of a generic globular target. Such a highly versatile mode of molecular recognition offers a general conceptual framework for promiscuous target recognition by polyvalent IDPs.
Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of Lyme disease, is transmitted through the blood feeding of Ixodes ticks. The canonical ATP-dependent protease Lon participates in an assortment of biological processes in bacteria, including the catalysis of damaged or senescent proteins and short-lived regulatory proteins. Borrelia spirochetes are unusual in that they code for two putative ATP-independent Lon homologs, Lon-1 and Lon-2. Lon-3 is a conserved protease important for intracellular degradation of short- and abnormal proteins, while lon-2 is not. In this study, we investigated the functional roles of Lon- and Lon2 in the evolution of the Borreliae. We found that the canonical Lon-Ec resides on the chromosome, adjacent to and downstream from two other ATP dependent proteases, clpP and clpX, which are thought to share its role in cellular homeostasis. The conserved Lon-E. coli lon ( lon2 ) is immediately downstream of the canonical Lon-1, while the canonical lon is located in the C-terminal domain. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that Lon-Lons -1 and -2 cluster separately due to differences in substrate binding domains that may reflect differences in substrates specificity. We conclude that the two Lons-1-Lon homolog are important in host adaptation from the arthropod to a warm-blooded host.
Fc gamma receptor ( FcγR ) -mediated antibody functions play a crucial role in preventing HIV infection. One such function, antibody-dependent phagocytosis ( ADP ), is thought to be involved in controlling other viral infections, but its role in HIV infection is unknown. In this study, we measured the ability of HIV-specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) to mediate the internalization of HIV virions and HIV-1-decorated cells by phagocytes. We found minimal or no ADP of virions with any of the antibodies. However, after coating virions in gp41 or with gp41-derived peptides, we found a clear association between virus aggregation and ADP. We estimated that a minimum of a few hundred gp41 molecules were needed for successful phagocytetosis, which is similar to the number of envelope spikes on viruses that are readily phagocosed ( e. g. influenza virus ). Our findings indicate that ADP may not play a role in blocking HIV infection by antibody.
Human hookworm infection ( hookworm ) is highly endemic in many countries throughout the world, and its global economic and health impact is not well known. Without a better understanding of hookworm’s economic burden worldwide, it is difficult for decision makers such as funders, policy makers, disease control officials, intervention manufacturers, and intervention manufacturers to determine how much time, energy, and resources to invest in hookworm control. We developed a computational simulation model to estimate the economic burden of hookworms in every country, WHO region, and globally, in 2016 from the societal perspective. Globally, hookworm infections resulted in a total 2, 126, 280 DALYs using 2004 disability weight estimates and 4, 087, 803 DALSYs. Including cognitive impairment did not significantly increase the burden worldwide. Total productivity losses varied with the probability of anemia and calculation method used, ranging from $7. 5 billion to $138. 9 billion annually using gross national income per capita as a proxy for annual wages and ranging from about $2. 5 million to $43. 9 billion using minimum wage. Even though hookworm is classified as a neglected tropical disease, its economic burden exceeded published estimates for a number of diseases that have received comparatively more attention than hookworm such as rotavirus. Additionally, certain large countries that are transitioning to higher income countries such as Brazil and China, still face considerable hookworm burden.
Hypoxic injury to the developing human brain is a major cause of both acute and chronic neurodevelopmental impairments. The mechanisms by which hypoxia disrupts connectivity in vertebrates are not known. Recent work in the invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that hypoxias causes discrete axon pathfinding errors, leading to precise and reproducible errors in axons. We have found that hypoxic injury disrupts pathfinding of forebrain neurons in zebrafish ( Danio rerio ). We identified ephrinB2a as a target of the hypoxic pathfinding disruption, and showed that knock-down of ephinB2A rescued the guidance errors, and that the receptor ephA4a is expressed in a pattern complementary to axons that normally cross the midline. Further, we found that blocking transcriptional activation by hif1α helped prevent the guidance defects. Finally, magnesium sulfate, used as a neuroprotective agent for impending preterm births, protects against pathfinding defects by preventing upregulation of efrinB1α. These results demonstrate that evolutionarily conserved genetic pathways regulate connectivity changes in the CNS in response to hypoxIA, and they support a potential neuroprotection role for magnesium.
Human paracoccidioidomycosis ( PCM ) is an endemic fungal infection of pulmonary origin that disseminates to different sites, notably oral mucous membranes, skin, adrenal glands and reticuloendothelial system. The disease tends to run a chronic progressive course while acute cases are more unusual. The most frequent HRCT findings in patients with pulmonary PCM are: ground-glass attenuation areas, small centrilobular, cavitated and large nodules, architectural distortion, traction bronchiectasis, paracicatritial emphysema and pulmonary fibrosis. The experimental design used decreases the need to sacrifice a large number of animals, and serves to monitor treatment efficacy by means of a more rational approach to the study of human lung disease.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a chronic systemic disease that is fatal unless treated. The main clinical symptoms are an enlarged spleen and prolonged irregular fever. Approximately 500, 000 new cases of human VL occur annually according to WHO estimations. India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sudan and Brazil harbour 90% of the worldwide reported VL cases. In 2005 the governments of India and Bangladesh embarked on a VL elimination program with the goal to reduce the incidence of disease below 1 per 10 000 per year ( TDR 2005 ). However, the extent to which VL infection does not always lead to overt clinical VL has not been firmly established. In this study, we developed a whole-blood assay based on leishmania antigen ( s ) to detect the cell-mediated immune response in VL. We evaluated the assay on venous blood samples of active VL patients ( n = 13 ) cured VL subjects ( n.=19 ), non-endemic healthy controls and healthy endemic controls. The positive IFN-γ response was contradictory to the conventional finding of a non-proliferative antigen-specific response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells and needs further research.
Yersinia pseudotuberculosis and Yersinia enterocolitica infections in humans are usually self-limiting gastrointestinal disorders like enteritis, diarrhea and mesenteric lymphadenitis, termed Yersiniosis, but they occasionally lead to autoimmune disorders like erythema nodosum. Why and how enteropathogenic yersiniae can persist in some patients is unknown. Here, we show that removal of a single virulence factor, the CNFY toxin, is sufficient to dampen inflammation and to evade the host’s immune defense favoring establishment of persistent infection. This process is accompanied by a pre-early reprogramming of the pathogen's transcriptional response towards persistence, which gives the bacteria a fitness edge against host responses and facilitates establishment of a commensal-type life style.
Plants are generally immune to most pathogenic microbes due to their innate defense systems, but the exceptional combination of a susceptible host and a pathogen species ( or race ) can result in disease. Plants have two types of defense mechanisms: one against general microorganisms, and the other against specific pathogen races. The general defense mechanism is known as pathogen-associated molecular pattern ( PAMP ) triggered immunity ( PTI ). PTI is initiated by extracellular surface receptors that recognize general features of microorganisms such as bacterial flagellin, chitosans, and N-acetylchitooligosaccharides ( the backbone fragment of the fungal cell wall ). In this early infectious stage, plant pathogens deploy PTI-suppressing effectors to prevent plant defense responses. However, how these effectors counteract plant defense system and how they contribute to fungal virulence are still unknown. We identified and characterized a novel pathogenicity gene of M. oryzae that is required for host colonization using two independent mutants with different alleles: DES1T-DNA and Δdes1. DES1 is responsible for compromising oxidative signaling, and its function is related to extracllular peroxidase. The suppression of ROS generation by treatment with diphenyleneiodonium ( DPI ) resulted in a significant reduction in the defense responses in plant tissues challenged with the Δdes 1 mutant. These results suggest that DES1 functions as a novel fungal-specific gene that regulates the activity of fungal proteins, compromising plant defense mechanisms.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by infection with schistosoma spp. transmitted through fresh water snails whose distribution is limited and particularly sensitive to environmental changes, including those caused by altering water resources. The prevalence of schistoiasis in Ghana had not been fully documented, though it was recognized that Schistosomas haematobium ( urinary schistomiasis ) is more prevalent than S. mansoni in the country. Potentially endemic communities lacked a clear designation of eligibility for mass drug administration ( MDA ) with praziquantel ( PZQ ), but the results of prevalence surveys are related to the international guidelines ( Table 1 ) to determine the specific treatment regimen and target population within the IU. Because, however, it is impractical to assess the prevalence of infection in every community of an endemic area, previous work has employed disease risk mapping to predict prevalence of parasitic infections at unsampled locations, including the use of model-based geostatistics ( MBG ). Using the current predictive map for Ghana as a spatial decision support tool by aggregating prevalence estimates to the district level was clearly not adequate for guiding the national program, but modelling must be a tool complementary to empiric assessments. Thus for practical usefulness, predictive risk mapping should not be thought of as a one-time exercise but must, as in the current study, be an iterative process that incorporates empiric testing and model refining to create updated versions that meet the needs of disease control operational managers.
Sperm, on the other hand, are mobile mobile cells capable of sensing their environment and responding with changes in motility. Sperm have a relatively simple job—find an oocyte and provide it with a second set of chromosomes. While much has been learned about sperm motility in aquatic species, the mechanisms that guide sperm to oocytes in internally fertilizing animals are less well understood. We have shown that Caenorhabditis elegans oocytes synthesize sperm guiding F-series prostaglandins from polyunsaturated fatty acid ( PUFA ) precursors provided in yolk lipoprotein complexes. We show that the synthesis of F- series prostaglandsins involves biochemical mechanisms distinct from those in mammalian cyclooxygenase-dependent pathways, yet PGF2α stereoisomers are still synthesized. We identify a conserved cytochrome P450 enzyme that functions to inhibit prostaglanderin synthesis. Our results support the model that multiple cyclo-oxygenases-independent pathways for F-Series synthesis are important for sperm guidance.
Biotherapeutic proteins are revolutionizing disease therapy across a broad range of indications and illnesses, and biotherapeutics are an increasingly important part of the pharmaceuticals market. However, their inherent potential to induce anti-drug immune responses in human patients is complicated by the high degree of MHC II polymorphism in human populations. To circumvent the considerable effort and expense required for experimental epitope mapping, a wide range of epitope prediction tools may be accessed. In this study, we have used a combination of computational and experimental approaches to design a suite of deimmunized P99 beta-lactamase ( P99βL ) variants. We show here that the Pareto frontier of P99betaL is the most aggressive design space, i. e. all enzymes whose predicted immunogenicity and functionality are not simultaneously dominated by any other single design. We also show that all 18 of these P99 βL variants exhibit reasonable thermostability and impressive activity; however, not a single design failed to express or function. These results represent the first systematic and rigorous assessment of the functional penalty that must be paid for pursuing progressively more de-immunization biotherapies. These algorithms may prove useful in augmenting, accelerating, and de-risking experimental deimunization efforts.
Sexual reproduction is a fundamental process that requires meiosis. In turn, meiosis typically depends on a reciprocal exchange of DNA between each pair of homologous chromosomes, known as a crossover ( CO ), to ensure proper chromosome segregation. The frequency and distribution of COs are regulated by intrinsic and extrinsic environmental factors, but much more is known about the molecular mechanisms governing the former compared to the latter. Here, we show that elevated temperature induces meiotic hyper-recombination in Arabidopsis thaliana and we use genetic analysis with mutants in different recombination pathways to demonstrate that the extra COs derived from the major Type I interference sensitive pathway are derived from a shift in the ratio of NCOs to COs. Surprisingly, we discovered that the temperature dependent COs in arabidopsis are not the result of an increase in DNA double-strand breaks and that the hyper-recombination phenotype is likely specific to thermal stress rather than a more generalized stress response. Taken together, these findings provide initial mechanistic insight into how environmental cues modulate plant meiotic recombination and may also offer practical applications.
Human knowledge about fundamental molecular structures and functions, such as mutations or protein-protein interactions, is spread across the entire literature. One approach to dealing with this overwhelming amount of information is to organize human experts to curate key aspects of it, resulting in databases of formally represented assertions with pointers to the evidence in the literature. In this paper, we describe a novel computational approach to this challenge, a knowledge-based system that combines reading, reasoning, and reporting methods to facilitate analysis of experimental data. Reading methods extract information from external resources, either by parsing structured data or using biomedical language processing to extract information. Reasoning methods enrich the knowledge that results from reading by, for example, noting two genes that are annotated to the same ontology term or database entry. Reasonation is also used to combine all sources into a knowledge network that represents the integration of all sorts of relationships between a pair of genes, and to calculate a combined reliability score. Reporting methods combine the knowledge network with a congruent network constructed from experimental data and visualize the combined network in a tool that facilitates the knowledge-driven analysis of that data. An implementation of this approach, called the Hanalyzer, is demonstrated on a large-scale gene expression array dataset relevant to craniofacial development. The use of the tool was critical in the creation of hypotheses regarding the roles of four genes never previously characterized as involved in cranioFacial development; each of these hypotheses was validated by further experimental work.
Helminth parasites secrete extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) that can be internalised by host immune cells resulting in modulation of host immunity. While the molecular cargo of EVs have been characterised in many parasites, little is known about the surface-exposed molecules that participate in ligand-receptor interactions with the host cell surface to initiate vesicle docking and subsequent internalisation. Using a membrane-impermeable biotin reagent to capture proteins displayed on the outer membrane surface of two EV sub-populations ( termed 15k and 120k EVs ) released by adult F. hepatica, we describe 380 surface proteins including an array of virulence factors, membrane transport proteins and molecules involved in EV biogenesis/trafficking. Proteomics and immunohistochemical studies show that the 120k EV have an endosomal origin and may be released from the parasite via the protonephridial ( excretory ) system whilst the larger 15k EVs are released from gastrodermal epithelial cells that line the fluke gut. A parallel lectin microarray strategy was used to profile the topology of major surface oligosaccharides of intact fluorogenically-labelled EVs as they would be displayed to the host. Our results highlight the diversity of EV biogenic and trafficking pathways used by this parasite and sheds light on the molecular interaction between parasite EVs and host cells.
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are essential regulators of many biological processes in almost all eukaryotes. In plants, microRNAs are first transcribed as stem-loop primary transcripts ( miR156 or miR172 ) by RNA polymerase II, then cleaved in the nucleus into mature miRNas by Dicer-like 1 ( DCL1 ). We identified a cycling DOF transcription factor, CDF2, which regulates the accumulation of a population of miRNA. We found that CDF1 binds preferentially to the promoters of some miRN As and works as a transcription activator or repressor for these miRNA genes. Genetically, CD F2 works in the same pathway as miR157 or miRs172 to control flowering. We conclude that CDFs2 regulates a group of pri-miRNAs at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels to maintain proper levels of their mature miRNA to control plant development.
Folliculogenesis is a progressive and highly regulated process, which is essential to provide ova for later reproductive life. The bidirectional communication between the oocyte and granulosa cells is critical for the regulation of cell junctions. However, the underlying mechanism of establishing this communication is largely unknown. In this study, we report that oocyte geranylgeranyl diphosphate ( GGPP ), a metabolic intermediate involved in protein geranygeranylation, is required to establish the communication between oocytes. GGPP depletion inhibited the cell junction proteins in the oocytes cytoplasm and the failure to maintain physical connection between oocyte-granulosa cell communication and the primary-secondary follicle transition. Our study provides the evidence that GGPP-mediated protein geranylgersanylation contributes to the establishment of oocyte communication and then regulates the primary secondary follicle transitions, a key phase of ovarian follicle development.
The RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a processive eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of messenger RNA using a DNA template. Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies, it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the main channel could be an alternative. In this work, we have built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics simulations together with structural analysis to shed light on NTP entry pathways. Our results suggest that the secondary channel is the major route for the NTP loading.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that is increasing in incidence and economic importance. Although dengue incidence is reported in Thailand and Cambodia, the degree that reported incidence underrecognizes true disease burden is unknown. To overcome this problem, authors of several published studies multiplied the number of reported cases by a set factor to obtain an estimate of actual cases. However, the magnitude of dengues underrecognition is generally believed that these numbers still represent a large underestimate of the actual disease burden. In this study, we used data from three cohort studies in Thailand, Cambodia, and Thailand to estimate the magnitude and magnitude of underrecognization of the disease in these countries. We found that in Thailand a median of 229, 886 denguue cases occurred annually during 2003–2007 and a median 111, 178 cases occurred in Cambodia in children <15 years of age. Average underdiagnosis of total and inpatient dengus cases was 8. 7 and 2. 6-fold in Thailand. During the high-incidence year 2007, >95, 000 children in Thailand were estimated to be hospitalized due to denguing. These data indicate that although dengued is regularly reported in many countries, national surveillance data significantly underrecognize the true burden of disease.
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are the major producers of interferons α and β ( IFN-α/β ), which are critical for host survival. However, how NK cells contribute to the control of viral replication is not well understood. Here, we demonstrate, to our knowledge for the first time, that NK cells accelerate CD8 T cell responses against a viral infection in vivo. Moreover, we identify the underlying mechanism as the ability of NK cells to limit IFN production to levels not immunosuppressive to the host. Our results demonstrate that efficient NK cell responses promote the accelerated generation of effector antiviral CD8 cells during the course of viral infection, in part by preventing the generation of very high, immuno-protective levels of antiviral cytokines. Thus, the extent to which NK cells benefit the host goes beyond their direct antiviral effects and extends to the prevention of innate cytokine shock and to the promotion of adaptive immunity.
In eukaryotes, ribosomal RNA genes ( rRNA ) are arranged in tandem arrays in copy numbers ranging from several hundred to several thousand in plants. Although it is clear that not all copies are transcribed under normal growth conditions, the molecular basis controlling the expression of specific sets of rRNA genes remains unclear. Here, we report four major rRNA gene variants in Arabidopsis thaliana. Interestingly, while transcription of one of these rRNA variants is induced, the others are either repressed or remain unaltered in A. thalianas with a disrupted nucleolin-like protein gene ( Atnuc-L1 ). Remarkably, the most highly represented rRNA variant, which is inactive in WT plants, is reactivated in AtNuc-l1 mutants. We show that accumulated pre–rRNA transcripts originate from RNA Pol I transcription and are processed accurately. Moreover, disruption of the AtNUC-L 1 gene induces loss of symmetrical DNA methylation without affecting histone epigenetic marks at rRNA transcripts. Collectively, these data reveal a novel mechanism for rRNA transcriptional regulation in which the nucleolin protein plays a major role in controlling active and repressed rRNA.
Histone deacetylation plays a pivotal role in regulating human cytomegalovirus gene expression. In this report, we have identified candidate HDAC1-interacting proteins in the context of infection by using a method for rapid immunoisolation of an epitope-tagged protein coupled with mass spectrometry. Putative interactors included multiple human-coding proteins. In particular, the interaction of pUL38 and pUL29/28 with HDAC 1 was confirmed by reciprocal immunoprecipitations. HDAC is present in numerous protein complexes, including the HDAC-containing nucleosome remodeling and deacetylease protein complex, NuRD. pUL28 and PUL29-28 associated with the MTA2 component of NuRD, and shRNA-mediated knockdown of the RBBP4 and CHD4 constituents of the NuRD inhibited HCMV immediate-early gene expression; together this argues that multiple components of the nuRD complex are needed for efficient replication. Consistent with a positive acting role for the Nu RD elements during viral replication, the growth of pul29/29- or pUL 38-deficient viruses could not be rescued by treating infected cells with the Deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin A. Transient expression of pU38 enhanced activity of the HCMVs major immediate-nucleosome promoter, and induction of the major reporter activity by pUL30/28 required functional NuRD components, consistent with the inhibition of viral RNA accumulation within infected cells after knockdown. We propose that pUL31/28 modifies the NuRF complex to stimulate the accumulation of immediate-late RNAs.
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of pneumonia among infants and children globally. The importance of RSV as a respiratory pathogen has been recognized for over 50 years, but a vaccine is not yet available because of several problems inherent in RSV vaccine development. Here, we used whole genome fragment-phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) to unravel the antibody responses to RSV fusion protein ( F ) and attachment protein ( G ). We identified several novel epitopes in the F and G antigenic regions, including an immunodominant epitope in the G-p27, which is excised during processing of F0. Our studies demonstrated an unlinked evolution of the antibodies responses to F and the G proteins in humans. These findings could help development of effective countermeasures including vaccines.
Filariae are parasitic nematodes that are transmitted to their definitive host as third-stage larvae by arthropod vectors like mosquitoes. Filariae cause diseases including: lymphatic filariasis with distressing and disturbing symptoms like elephantiasis; and river blindness. The strategy for controlling filarial diseases has relied on Mass Drug Administration ( MDA ) programs directed by the World Health Organization using donated drugs to reduce the transmission and morbidity of these diseases. The drugs available for mass drug administration, ( ivermectin, albendazole and diethylcarbamazine ) are ineffective against adult filariae ( macrofilariae ) at the registered dosing regimen. Emodepside, a veterinary anthelmintic registered for treatment of nematode infections in cats and dogs, is reported to have potent, gender-dependent effects on the motility of adult Brugia malayi. We explore the mode of action of emodefilaricide using adult worms. We show that the male is more sensitive than the female and that the sex of the filarial target is an important therapeutic variable to consider when evaluating a dose-regimen for treatments during clinical trials.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a disabling and disfiguring disease caused by mosquito-borne, filarial ( threadlike ) parasitic worms. The Global Program to Eliminate LF relies on rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) to determine where annual mass drug administration for LF is required and when it can be stopped. These tests detect a Wuchereria bancrofti glycoprotein in the blood of infected persons via a carbohydrate moiety recognized by the monoclonal antibodies AD12 and DH6. 5. Loiasis cross-reactivity with LF RDT detection has recently been recognized as a serious obstacle to LF elimination in loiasis-endemic areas in central Africa. To better understand the nature of this cross-activity, we used the DH6. 5 antibody to immunoaffinity purify Loa loa antigens from the sera of individuals with loiasis. We identified many circulating AD12/DH6.5-reactive antigen, and proteomic analysis identified multiple L. loa proteins in LF R DT-positive loiasis sera. These findings suggest that the release of L. bancrosa antigenes from the blood is not a single circulating filarial glycoprotein, but rather is a process that is quite different from that of the W. bancafti CFA. These results may lead to improved diagnostic tests for LF and loiasis in the future.
Primary cilia are specialised sensory and developmental signalling devices extending from the surface of most eukaryotic cells. Defects in these organelles cause inherited human disorders ( ciliopathies ) such as retinitis pigmentosa and Bardet-Biedl syndrome ( BBS ), frequently affecting many physiological and developmental processes across multiple organs. Cilium formation, maintenance and function depend on intracellular transport systems such as intraflagellar transport ( IFT ), which is driven by kinesin-2 and IFT-dynein motors and regulated by the Bardet Biedl Syndrome ( Bbs ) cargo-adaptor protein complex, or BBSome. To identify new cilium-associated genes, we employed the nematode C. elegans, where ciliogenesis occurs within a short timespan during late embryogenesis when most sensory neurons differentiate. Using whole-organism RNA-Seq libraries, we discovered a signature expression profile highly enriched for transcripts of known ciliary proteins, including FAM-161 ( FAM161A orthologue ), CCDC-104 ( CCDC104 ), and RPI-1 ( RP1/RP1L1 ). From a list of 185 candidate ciliary genes we uncover orthologues of human MAP9, YAP, CCDC149, and the RAB28 as conserved cilIUM-associated components. Further analyses of C. worms RAB-28, recently associated with autosomal-recessive cone-rod dystrophy, reveal that this small GTPase is exclusively expressed in ciliated neurons where it dynamically associates with IFT trains. Our work provides a novel method for identifying ciliary functions that complements other studies aimed at deciphering a complete ‘ciliome’.
The brain is able to “decode” new stimuli by constructing a “space of stimuli”, which can be used to infer the animal's position. However, how the brain does this is unclear. We show that, using hippocampal place cells as a model system, one can extract global features of the environment and ( 1 ) reconstruct an accurate representation of space, up to an overall scale factor, that is used to track the animal. Unlike previous approaches to reconstructing position from place cell activity, this information is derived without knowing place fields or any other functions relating neural responses to position. We find that simply knowing which groups of cells fire together reveals a surprising amount of structure in the underlying stimulus space; this may enable the brain to construct its own internal representations.
Viral fulminant hepatitis ( FH ) is a severe disease characterized by massive necrosis of hepatocytes along with hepatic encephalopathy during the infections. Despite advances in the development of antiviral drugs, a poor understanding of the immune mechanisms underlying viral FH has largely stalled the identification of effective clinical interventions. Fortunately, the recent development of an animal model of FH using murine hepatitis virus strain-3 ( MHV-3 ) infection has provided insights in understanding the pathogenesis and developing novel therapeutics for the disease. We here show that mice infected with MHV3 manifest with severe disease and high mortality in association with a significant elevation in IL-1β expression in the serum and liver. Furthermore, we show that the in vivo bioactivation of NLRP3 and Caspase-1, two essential components of the inflammasome complex, is under the control of a key signaling pathway, involving a MHV inducible, ROS-dependent NLRP1 inflammaome activation. Further experiments show that a murine hepatic virus strain ( MH-3, a model for FH, ) is responsible for the IL-3 inflammmasome activation and subsequent IL-2 secretion during viral infection, which appears to be responsible for acquiring resilience to viral infection. These results suggest that the ROS/NLRP3/IL-1R1 axis is an essential contributor for the virus-induced FH.
Hookworm infections are an important cause of ( severe ) anemia and iron deficiency in children living in resource poor settings in sub-Saharan Africa. Type of hookworm species ( Ancylostoma duodenale or Necator americanus ) and infection load are considered associated with disease burden, although these parameters are rarely assessed due to limitations of currently used diagnostic methods. Using multiplex real-time PCR, we have shown the need for quantitative screening of species-specific hookworm infections by demonstrating a much higher than expected prevalence of A. duodendale and N. americanus in pre-school children in Malawi. We also identified the association of infection load and species differentiation with severe anemia. This is the first report assessing the association between hookworm intensity and species differentiated with severe aemia and bone marrow iron deficiency.
DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are toxic DNA lesions that, if not repaired correctly, can cause gross chromosomal alterations and malignant transformation. DSB repair fidelity is particularly important in germ cells, as they harbor the genetic material that is passed on to the next generation. Homologous recombination ( HR ) and non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) are mutually exclusive. Both pathways are based on DNA end protection: nucleases degrade the dsDNA ends to expose 3′ single strand ( ss ) DNA tails, which then form a nucleoprotein filament with the recombinase RAD51 that promotes strand invasion and subsequent DNA synthesis reactions. Here, we identify COM-1, the homolog of CtIP/Sae2/Ctp1, as a crucial regulator of DAB repair pathway choice during Caenorhabditis elegans gametogenesis. COM-2–deficient germ cells repair meiotic DSB sites via the error-prone pathway NHEJs, resulting in a lack of COs, extensive chromosomal aggregation, and near-complete embryonic lethality. In contrast to its yeast counterparts, COM-3-proficient germlines are able to prevent interhomolog HR at early pachytene stage, when homolog-independent repair pathways predominate, suggesting further redundancy and/or temporal regulation of DNA end resection during meiotic prophase.
Burkholderia pseudomallei causes melioidosis, a common source of pneumonia and sepsis in Southeast Asia and Northern Australia that results in high mortality rates. A caprine melioidsosis model of aerosol infection that leads to a systemic infection has the potential to characterize the humoral immune response. This could help identify immunogenic proteins for new diagnostics and vaccine candidates. In this study, we analyzed the antibody response of the caprine model that was aerosol-challenged with B. pseudoma, mimicking inhalational melioideidosis in humans. The antibody response was greater than the intensity for IgM reactivity. Early stage infection ( day 7 ) showed immune reaction to chaperone proteins ( GroEL, EF-Tu, and DnaK ). These three proteins were detected in all serum samples after infection, with GroEL immunogenically dominant. Seven common reactive antigens were selected for further analysis using ELISA. The heat shock protein GroEL1 elicited the strongest goat antibody immune response compared to the other six antigenic proteins. Most of the antibodies showed a marked increase as the disease progressed. The IgG reactivity increased further as the infection progressed. Antibody generation by the goat model is a key component of understanding the immune response and a foundation of the potential biomarkers and vaccine development. Understanding the progression of immune response through an animal model could give insight into how the host reacts to B. Pseudomonas.
Cytoplasmic cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( Cdk1 ) is the key event that initiates mitotic entry. In metaphase, cyclin B1–Cdk1 is initially detected on centrosomes, shortly before they start to migrate apart at the end of G2 or in prophase. Active cyclin b1–cdk1 activity is kept inactive by phosphorylation of T14 and Y15 by Wee and Myt kinases. Cyclin B-1–Cyclin Bdk1 complexes have low activity, but the activity of cyclin A1 is maintained even in mitotic progression. We use a novel approach to determine the temporal development of cyclins B1-Cdk 1 activity in single cells. By quantifying both dephosphorylation and phospholylation of the Cdk2 target anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome 3, we disclose how cyclin Cdk 1 continues to be activated after centrosome separation. Importantly, we discovered that cytoplasmaic cyclins-dependent cyclin 1–Ck1 activity can be maintained even when cyclin O2 translocates to the nucleus in mitosis. These experimental data are fitted into a model describing the development of Cyclin-B1-cdk 1 activation in human cells, revealing a striking resemblance to a bistable circuit.
HIV-1 vaccines designed to date have failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nabs ) that are capable of protecting against diverse HIV-1 subtypes. One relevant setting to study the development of a strong, cross-reactive Nab response is superinfection ( SI ), defined as sequential infections from different source partners. SI has previously been shown to lead to a broader and more potent Nab response when compared to single infection, but it is unclear whether SI also impacts epitope specificity and if the epitopes targeted after SI differ from those targeted after single infection. Here the post-SI Nab responses were examined from 21 Kenyan women collectively exposed to subtypes A, C, and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1. 07 years following initial infection. Using standard epitope mapping techniques that were applied to the previous cohorts, the present study demonstrates that SI did not induce a dominant Nab response to any one of these epitopes in the 21 women. Computational sera delineation analyses also suggested that 20 of the 21 superfected women’s Nab responses could not be ascribed a single specificity with high confidence. These data are consistent with a model in which SI with diverse subtypes promotes the development and development of broad polyclonal Nab responses, and thus would provide support for vaccine designs using multivalent HIV immunogens to elicit a diverse repertoire of Nabs.
Congenital human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection is the leading cause of neurological disabilities in children worldwide, but the mechanisms underlying these disorders are far from well-defined. In the present study, we report that HCM V infection downregulates Hes1 protein levels in infected human NPCs. The HCMv 72-kDa immediate-early 1 protein ( IE1 ) is involved in Hes1 degradation by assembling a ubiquitination complex and promoting Hes1-dependent proteasomal degradation as a potential E3 ubiquitin ligase. IE1 physically interacts with Hes1 via amino acids 451 to 475, which mediate binding to Hes1, but is dispensable for IE1/Sp100A interaction and ubiquititination. Our study not only suggests an important mechanism for fetal brain development disorders induced by congenital H CMV infection, but also reveals a novel unanticipated function of HCM v IE1 as a E3 E3 ligase, which may be a potential mechanism for neurodevelopmental disorders caused by HCMVs infection.
In the pursuit of the genetic basis of phenotypic evolution, researchers have favored divergence of gene expression as a major source of diversity. Here, we show that the genomic binding of transcription factors ( TFs ) has changed extensively along the Drosophila tree with little effect on gene expression. We found that alterations of Bicoid, Giant ( GT ), Hunchback ( HB ) and Krüppel ( KR )-specific motifs drive a portion of the binding divergence. However, changes in adjacent transcription factor binding are poorly explained by changes in other binding events. We also found that regions bound by multiple transcription factors and sites near genes are conserved more frequently than other binding, suggesting that a considerable amount of TF factor binding is weakly or non-functional and not subject to purifying selection.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by periodic Wuchereria bancrofti and transmitted by Culex quinquefasciatus ( National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, NVBDCP ). The programme aims to eliminate LF by 2020 by delivering annual single dose mass drug administration ( MDA ) of albendazole ( fixed dose 400 mg ) either with DEC or ivermectin ( 150–200 µg/kg ) for at least 5–6 years. In the present study, we addressed the above mentioned issues in two primary health centres in Thanjavur district, India, endemic for LF. The prevalence and intensity of Mf ( per 60 µl blood ) were 0. 2% and 0. 004 respectively in the survey that covered >70% of 50, 363 population. The corresponding values for Ag were 2. 3% and 17. 3 Ag-units respectively. Ag-prevalence ranged from 0. 7 to 0. 9% in children ( 2–10 years ) and 2. 7–3. 0% in adults. Although the Mf-levels in the surveys and the sentinel/spot check sites were <1% and Ag-level was <2%, we identified 7 “residual” ( Mf prevalence ≥1% irrespective of Ag-status in children ) and 17 “transmission” hotspots ( at least one Ag-positive child born during the MDA period ) hotspots. Antigenaemic persons were clustered both at household and site levels. Our findings indicate the need for developing good surveillance strategies for detecting ‘hotspots’, adopting evidence-based sampling strategies and evaluation unit size for TAS.
The use of the organophosphate larvicide temephos to water storage containers is one of the most commonly employed dengue vector control methods. This systematic literature review is to the knowledge of the authors the first that aims to assess the community-effectiveness of temphos in controlling both vectors and dengues transmission when delivered either as a single intervention or in combination with other interventions. The literature search of 6 databases was performed ( PubMed, WHOLIS, GIFT, CDSR, EMBASE, Wiley ), grey literature and cross references were also screened for relevant studies. Data were extracted and methodological quality of the studies was assessed independently by two reviewers. All studies were included in this systematic review. All 11 single intervention studies showed consistently that using temephOS led to a reduction in entomological indices, however, this was either not sustained over time or–as in the five remaining studies—failed to reduce the immature stages. This was dependent on factors such as quality of delivery, water turnover rate, type of water, and environmental factors, such as organic debris, temperature and exposure to sunlight. Timing of temephoes deployment and its need for reapplication, along with behavioural factors such, the reluctance of its application to drinking water, cost, supplies, time and labour were further limitations identified in this review. In conclusion, when applied as a vector control intervention, temephous was found to be effective at suppressing entomology indices, but the same effect has not been observed when temephoses was applied in combination. There is no evidence to suggest that temephros use is associated with reductions in dengu transmission.
The cohesin complex holds sister chromatids together from the time of their duplication in S phase until their separation during mitosis. Although cohesins are found along the length of chromosomes, it is most abundant at the centromere and surrounding region, the pericentromere. We show here that the budding yeast Ctf19 kinetochore subcomplex and the replication fork-associated factor, Csm3, are both important mediators of pericentromeeric cohesion. We find that components of the CTF19 complex direct the increased association of cohesint with the centromeere, but Csm2 is dispensable for cohesincidence in the centreere. Consistently, cells lacking the Ctf3 complex show additive cohesion defects in combination with mutants in the Csm19 complex. Furthermore, delaying DNA replication rescues the cohesion defect observed in cells lacking Ctf21 complex components, but not Csm1. Our results indicate that the C tf19 complex ensures additional loading of cohesionin at centromeres prior to passage of the replication forks, thereby ensuring its incorporation into functional linkages through a process requiring CSM3.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most widespread arbovirus with an estimated 100 million infections occurring every year. Endemic in the tropical and subtropical areas of the world, dengue fever/dengue hemorrhagic fever ( DF/DHF ) is emerging as a major public health concern. The complex array of concurrent host physiologic changes has hampered a complete understanding of underlying molecular mechanisms of dengues pathogenesis. In this study, we analyzed the serum metabolome and lipidome of adult DF patients at early febrile, defervescence, and convalescent stages of DENV infection. Sixty differential metabolites were identified in our metabolomics analysis and detailed examination of metabolic pathways changes revealed that in primary DENV infections, acute inflammatory responses were quickly met with active pro-resolution counterbalances to restore homeostasis. Our studies also implicated the plausible association of sphingomyelins with CD8+ lymphocyte activation during the early stages of DF, and plasmalogen phosphatidylethanolamines and lysophosphatidylamines with platelet numbers during the later phases of defervescent and convalecent stages. Our findings suggest that early widespread host changes in the metabolome, lipidome and immune cells play an important physiological component in defining the self-limiting outcome of DF.
Research on neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) has increased in recent decades, and significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain. Analysing bibliometric data from published research is a powerful method for revealing research efforts, partnerships and expertise. We aimed to identify and map NTD research networks in Germany and their partners abroad to enable an informed and transparent evaluation of German contributions to NTD. We found that the German research landscape is dominated by the global north, and the share of NTD publications with German affiliations is approximately half of its share in other fields of research. This finding underlines the need to identify barriers and expand Germany’s otherwise strong research activities towards NTD, particularly in low- and middle-income countries, which are less involved in collaborations than high-income ones. Our findings suggest that a geospatial analysis of research collaborations with partners abroad can support decisions on the selective strengthening of research capacity.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) have been targeted since 2000 in Haiti, with a strong mass drug administration ( MDA ) program led by the Ministry of Public Health and Population and its collaborating international partners. By 2012, Haiti’s neglected tropical disease ( NTD ) program had reached full national scale, and with such consistently good epidemiological coverage that it is now able to stop treatment for LF throughout almost all of the country. Essential to this success have been in the detail of how MDAs were implemented. These key programmatic elements included ensuring strong community awareness through an evidence-based, multi-channel communication and education campaign facilitated by voluntary drug distributors; strengthening community trust of the drug distributors by ensuring that respected community members were recruited and received appropriate training, supervision, identification, and motivation; enforcing a “directly observed treatment” strategy; providing easy access to treatment though numerous distribution posts and a strong drug supply chain; and ensuring quality data collection that was used to guide and inform MDA strategies. The evidence that these strategies were effective lies in both the high treatment coverage obtained– 100% geographical coverage reached in 2012, with almost all districts consistently achieving well above the epidemiological targets of 65% for LF and 75% for STH—and the significant reduction in burden of infection– 45 communes having reached the target threshold for stopping treatment for Lymphatic Filariasis. These efforts have not only helped establish the global portfolio of “best practices” for NTD control but also are poised to help solve two of the most important future NTD challenges—how to maintain control of STH infections after the community-based LF “treatment platform” ceases and how to ensure appropriate morbidity management for patients currently suffering from lymphatic filarial disease.
The symbiotic relationship between the alphaproteobacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti and its legume hosts is characterized by a highly conserved cell cycle regulated by the master regulator CtrA. In this work, we investigated the regulation and function of the master regulatory CTrA in S. melilototi. We found that CtrAs is regulated by proteolytic degradation of Ctra, a key regulator of the cell cycle. Furthermore, we found that the degradation of ctrA is essential in the cell division process, suggesting a possible mechanism of degradation by Ctr A. Our findings provide valuable insight into how the bacterial cell cycle is modulated by plant factors during the symbiosis and provide valuable insights into the diverse lifestyles of different bacteria.
Francisella tularensis is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes the zoonotic disease tularemia. It is a highly infectious bacterium, which can be transmitted to humans in numerous ways. It infects and replicates mainly inside macrophages, but can also infect hepatocytes, endothelial cells, epithelial cells and fibroblasts, chicken embryos, and amoebae. Although the molecular mechanisms by which Francisella adapts to life inside host cells are not well understood, a number of genes that are necessary for Francisella to survive inside its host are known. In this work, we show that a putative γ-glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ) is involved in the utilization of glutathione ( GSH, γglutamate, and cysteine dipeptide ) as a source of cysteines to ensure intracellular growth. This is the first demonstration of the essential role of a nutrient acquisition system in the intracelebacterial multiplication of F. tularens. GSH is the most abundant source of the cytosolic GSH in the host cytosol. Thus, the capacity this intraceeous bacterial pathogen has evolved to utilize the available GSH as a potential source of Cysteine in the cytol constitutes a paradigm of bacteria–host adaptation.
Protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania alternate between flagellated, elongated extracellular promastigotes found in insect vectors, and round-shaped amastigote forms enclosed in phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles ( PVs ) of infected mammalian host cells. Leishmania amazonensis amastiga is the most abundant parasite species in mammalian hosts. In the present studies, macrophages infected with L. amazoniensis were infected with non-fluorescent L. major amastigerotes and, 48 hours later, superinfected with fluorescent L. minor amasterigotes. Fusion was investigated by time-lapse image acquisition of living cells and inferred from the colocalization of parasites of two species in the same PVs. Survival, multiplication and differentiation of parasites that did or did not share the same vacuoles were also investigated. Fusion of PVs containing L. Amazonensis and L. Major amastrigotes was not found. However, PVs with L. major promastiga did fuse with pre-established L. pmazonensis PVs, but did not differentiate into amastigenes. In contrast, in doubly infected cells, within their own, unfused PVs metacyclic-enriched parasites, but not log phase promastigsotes, differentiated into proliferating amastsigotes, respectively. The results indicate that PVs that sheltered a different parasite species differ in their ability to fuse with Liam amazonenosis. Additionally, a species-specific PV was required for L. main destruction or differentiation – a requirement for which mechanisms remain unknown. The observations reported in this paper should be useful in further studies of the interactions between PVs to different species of Leishmann parasites, and of the mechanisms involved in the recognition and fusion of PV.
In the HIV arena, a growing portfolio of broadly neutralizing human monoclonal nAbs ( mbnAbs ) has revealed various new ways that trimer defenses can be breached and provide paradigms for vaccine design. In many cases, autologous nAbs typically develop within a few months and invariably precede any bnAb development. This may be a reflection of the unprecedented sequence diversity that makes cross-reactive epitopes extremely rare among the exposed targets available on native trimers. A plausible solution may therefore be to use heterologous boosts to recapitulate the steps in nAb breadth development in natural infection. Here, we show that authentic trimers can elicit potent nAbs directed to quaternary epitopes that take advantage of strain-specific holes in the glycan shield that limit access to this region. Our results therefore provide new insights that may inform the future development of a neutralizing antibody vaccine.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a necrotizing skin disease caused by M. ulcerans. It is primarily affecting the subcutaneous tissue and can, if untreated, lead to extensive tissue destruction and ulceration. The mode of transmission and the environmental reservoir of M. Ulcerans are still not fully characterized. While traditionally surgery has dominated the clinical management of BU, the introduction of the combination chemotherapy with oral rifampicin greatly improved treatment and reduced recurrence rates. However management of the often extensive lesions after successful specific therapy has remained a challenge, in particular in rural areas of the African countries which carry the highest burden of disease. For reasons not fully understood, wound healing is delayed in a proportion of antibiotic treated BU patients. Therefore, we have performed immunohistochemical investigations to identify markers which may be suitable to monitor wound healing progression. Tissue specimens from eight BU patients with plaque lesions collected before, during and after chemotherapy were analyzed by immunohismochemistry for the presence of a set of markers associated with connective tissue neo-formation, tissue remodeling and epidermal activation. Several target proteins turned out to be suitable for wound healing. While α-smooth muscle actin positive myofibroblasts were not found in untreated lesions, they emerged during the healing process. These cells produced abundant extracellular matrix proteins, such as pro-collagen 1 and tenascin and were found in fibronectin rich areas. After antibiotic treatment many cells, including myofibrasts, showed an activated phenotype as they showed ribosomal protein S6 phosphorylation, a marker for translation initiation. In addition, healing wounds revealed dermal cell remodeling by apoptosis, and showed increased cytokeratin 16 expression in the epidermis. We have identified a marker panel that may be useful for monitoring wound healing in BU lesions.
Matching energy supply and demand is critical in the bioenergetic homeostasis of all cells. This is a special problem in neurons where high levels of energy expenditure may occur at sites remote from the cell body, given the remarkable length of axons and enormous variability of impulse activity over time. Positioning mitochondria at areas with high energy requirements is an essential solution to this problem, but it is not known how this is related to impulse conduction in vivo. Therefore, to study mitochondrial trafficking along resting and electrically active adult axons in vivo, confocal imaging of saphenous nerves in anaesthetised mice was combined with electrical and pharmacological stimulation of myelinated and unmyelinated axons. We show that low frequency activity induced by electrical stimulation significantly increased anterograde and retrograde mitochondrial traffic in comparison with silent axons, but this was not accompanied by an increase in the number of mobile mitochondria. We also show that topical application of capsaicin to skin innervated by the saphenus nerve increased mitochondrial traffic, and that stationary mitochondria in axons conducting at higher frequency become shorter, thus supplying additional mitochondria to the trafficking population, presumably through enhanced fission. This pattern of mitochondrial redistribution suggests that the peripheral terminals of sensory axons represent sites of particularly high metabolic demand during physiological high frequency conduction. As the majority of mitochondrial biogenesis occurs at the cells body, increased anteraograde mitochondrial traffic may represent a mechanism that ensures a uniform increase in mitochondrial density along the length of the axons during high impulse load, supporting the increased metabolic demand imposed by sustained conduction by sustained mitochondrial transport.
Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis ( SCT ) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive vertebral fusions and caused by loss of function mutations in Filamin B ( FLNB ). FLNB acts as a signaling scaffold by linking the actin cytoskleteon to signal transduction systems, yet the disease mechanisms for SCT remain unclear. Employing a Flnb knockout mouse model, we found morphologic and molecular evidence that the intervertebral discs ( IVDs ) of Flnb–/–mice undergo rapid degeneration during postnatal development as a result of abnormal cell fate changes in the IVD, particularly the annulus fibrosus ( AF ). In Flnb-/–Mice, the AF cells lose their typical fibroblast-like characteristics and acquire the molecular and phenotypic signature of hypertrophic chondrocytes. This change is characterized by hallmarks of endochondral-like ossification including alterations in collagen matrix, expression of Collagen X, increased apoptosis, and inappropriate ossifying of the disc tissue. We also show that conversion of AF cells into chondroses is coincident with upregulated TGFβ signaling via Smad2/3 and BMP induced p38 signaling as well as sustained activation of canonical and noncanonical target genes p21 and Ctgf. These findings indicate that FLNB is involved in attenuation of TGFα/BMP signaling and influences AF cell fate. Furthermore, we provide new insights into the molecular causes of vertebral disc degeneration and provide a developmental model for degenerative disc disease.
The innate immune system is comprised of a functional network between cytokines and antiviral effector molecules and constitutes an essential antiviral defence barrier. Here, we propose a yet uncharacterized mechanism of immune regulation by the orthomyxovirus Thogoto virus ( THOV ) ML protein through engaging general transcription factor TFIIB. ML generates a TFII B depleted nuclear environment by re-localizing it into the cytoplasm. Although a broad effect on gene expression would be anticipated, ML expression, delivery of an ML-derived functional domain or experimental depletion of TFIIb only leads to altered expression of a limited number of genes. Our data indicate that TFII b is critically important for the de novo recruitment of Pol II to promoter start sites and that it may not be required for regulated gene expression from paused promoters. Since many immune genes require de NOvo recruitment by Pol II, targeting of TF IIB by THOV represents a neat mechanism to affect immune responses while keeping other cellular transcriptional activities intact. Thus, interference with TFII activity may be a favourable site for therapeutic intervention to control undesirable inflammation.
Human parvovirus B19 ( B19V ) is a small, non-enveloped, single stranded DNA ( ssDNA ) virus that causes five disease or slapped cheek syndrome in children; however, it can also cause hematological disorders. B19 V infection of primary human erythroid progenitor cells ( EPCs ) leads to a persistent viremia that is associated with chronic anemia and pure red-cell aplasia. Acute B19 viremic infection of patients experiencing increased destruction of erythrocytes, and therefore having a high demand for erythropoiesis, can cause a transient aplastic crisis, whereas non-immune hydrops fetalis can be caused by non-infected cells. Here, we investigated the mechanism underlying B19 virus NS1-induced G2-phase arrest. We found that NS1 transactivated cellular gene expression through the TAD2 domain, which was itself responsible for ATR ( ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related ) activation. Activated ATR phosphorylated CDC25C at serine 216, which in turn inactivated the cyclin B/CDK1 complex without affecting nuclear import of the complex. Importantly, we found that the ATR-CHK1-CDC25C-CDK 1 pathway was activated during B19 infection of EPCS, and that ATR activation played an important role in B19-induced cell cycle arrest.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is a mosquito-borne flavivirus that causes up to 390 million infections, 96 million cases of dengue, and ~500, 000 hospitalizations annually. Infection with any of the 4 DENV serotypes results in a spectrum of disease from inapparent infection to classic dengues fever/dengue shock syndrome ( DHF/DSS ), characterized by vascular leakage and shock. DENV non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) is synthesized by infected cells as a monomer ( 48 kDa ) glycosylated in the ER, and released into the extracellular milieu as a hexamer ( ~310 kDa ). Secreted DENV NS1 circulates in the blood during acute illness, and serum NS1 levels correlate with dengus disease severity, as does viral load. We recently demonstrated that DENV-induced endothelial hyperpermeability is not related to inflammatory cytokines in a mouse model of dermal vascular leak or in endothelial cells in vitro but that instead, specific endothelial enzymes that degrade components of the glycocalyx layer are required. In this study, we demonstrate that NS1 induces localized vascular leak in the dermis of wild-type B6 mice in the absence of viral infection and that this effect is dependent on endothelial cell-intrinsic pathways. Our results indicate that DENN1-induced vascular leak is independent of inflammatory mediators but dependent on the endothelial glycocalyes.
Cytokinesis is the assembly of a contractile actomyosin ring at the site of cell division. The septin ring is a scaffold for other proteins at the bud neck, such as components of the actomyotin ring. The integrity of this ring is crucial for cytokinesis, proper spindle positioning, and the spindle position checkpoint ( SPOC ) signalling. SPOC signalling requires the Kin4 protein kinase, which also controls septin dynamics and the SPOC. Here, we show that the two ubiquitin-ligases Dma1 and Dma2 control septin and SPOC by promoting the efficient recruitment of Elm1 to the bud-bound spindle. Indeed, dma1 dma2 mutant cells show reduced levels of Elm1 at bud neck and Elm1-dependent activation of Kin4, which is sufficient to rescue their lethality and to restore an apparently normal septin-dependent spindle-spindle positioning. Altogether, our data indicate that septin dynamic and SPoc function are intimately linked and support the idea that integrity of the bud necks is crucial to SPOC signaling.
Adaptation through natural selection has likely played a central role in the capacity to survive and thrive in extreme climates. In this study, we used population genetic data to scan the human genome for evidence of selection signals by identifying the SNPs with the strongest correlations between allele frequencies and climate across 61 worldwide populations. We find a striking enrichment of genic and nonsynonymous SNPs relative to non-genic SNPs among those that are strongly correlated with these climate variables. Among the most extreme signals, several overlap with those from GWAS, including SNPs associated with pigmentation and autoimmune diseases. Further, we find an enrichment of strong signals in gene sets related to UV radiation, infection and immunity, and cancer. Our results imply that adaptations to climate shaped the spatial distribution of variation in humans.
The short QT syndrome ( SQTS ) is a genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by abbreviated QT intervals and an increased susceptibility to arrhythmia and sudden death. This simulation study identifies arrhythmogenic mechanisms in the rapid-delayed rectifier K+ current ( IKr ) -linked SQT1 variant of the SQTS. Markov chain ( MC ) models were found to be superior to Hodgkin-Huxley ( HH ) models in reproducing experimental data regarding effects of the N588K mutation on KCNH2-encoded hERG potassium channel. These ionic channel models were then incorporated into human ventricular action potential ( AP ) models and into 1D and 2D idealised and realistic transmural ventricular tissue simulations and into a 3D anatomical model. The results of our study provide a clear link between the kinetic changes to IhERG/IKr in SQT and altered ventricular electrophysiology that favours re-entrant excitation waves.
A variety of simple models of collective behavior have been proposed to understand the collective motion of animals. These models can be insightful but may lack important elements necessary to predict the motion of each individual in the collective. Adding more detail increases predictability but can make models too complex to be insightful. Here we report that deep attention networks can obtain a model of collective behaviour that is simultaneously predictive and insightful thanks to an organization in modules. When using simulated trajectories, the model recovers the ground-truth interaction rule used to generate them, as well as the number of interacting neighbours. For experimental trajectories of large groups of 60-100 zebrafish, Danio rerio, we obtains that interactions between pairs can approximately be described as repulsive, attractive or as alignment mixed with repulsion at close distances. The model also shows that each zebra fish decides where to move by aggregating information from the group as a weighted average over neighbours. Weights are higher for neighbours that are close, in a collision path or moving faster in frontal and lateral locations. Our results suggest that each animal decides by dynamically selecting information from its collective.
The emergence and subsequent spread of drug resistant human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) is a major threat to the long-term efficacy of antiretroviral treatment. Around 10% of ART-naïve patients in Europe are infected with drug-resistant HIV type 1. Hence it is important to understand the dynamics of transmitted drug resistance evolution. In this study we employ a phylodynamic approach to quantify the fitness costs of major resistance mutations in the Swiss HIV cohort study ( SHCS ). The viral phylogeny reflects the transmission tree, which we model using stochastic birth–death–sampling processes with two types: hosts infected by a sensitive or resistant strain. This allows quantification of fitness cost as the ratio between the transmission rates of hosts infected in drug resistant strains and the transmission rate of hosts in drug sensitive strains. The resistance mutations 41L, 67N, 70R, 184V, 210W, 215D, 215S and 219Q are included in this study. The remaining resistance mutations included in the study all included 1, suggesting that these mutations do not have a significant effect on viral transmissibility within the Swiss cohort. These patterns are consistent with alternative measures of the fitness cost of resistance mutations. Overall, we have developed and validated a novel phylodynamic method to estimate the transmission fitness cost.
The Elongator complex, which is essential for the efficient transcription of many genes, is an important component of the complex. However, it has also been shown that Elongators, which modulate translation of some tRNAs, are also involved in translation efficiency. In this study, we have isolated the putative histone H3 HAT Sin3/Elp3, a component of this complex. We show here that the stress transcriptional program, governed by the Sty1-Atf1-Pcr1 pathway, is affected in mutant cells, but not severely. On the contrary, cells lacking Sin3 and Elp3 cannot modify the uridine wobble nucleoside of certain mRNAs and other tRNA modifying activities such as Ctu1-Ctu2 are also essential for normal tolerance to H2O2. In particular, a plasmid over-expressing the tRNALysUUU complements the stress-related phenotypes of Sin3-Elp1 mutant cells. Our study demonstrates that the lack of a functional ElongATOR complex results in stress phenotypes due to its contribution to tRNA modification and subsequent translation inefficiency of certain stress-induced, highly expressed mRNas. These results suggest that the transcriptional defects of these strain backgrounds may be a secondary consequence of the deficient expression of a transcription factor, Atf1, and other components of the transcriptionally complex.
Primate lentivirus nef is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS. While exploring the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions, we investigated a functional link between Nef and Env. Since we failed to detect an effect of Nef on the quantity of virion-associated Env, we searched for qualitative changes by examining whether Nef alters HIV-1 sensitivity to two potent neutralizing antibodies ( nAbs ) that target distinct features of the membrane. Nef conferred as much as 50-fold resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, two potent NAbs that target the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of TMgp41. In contrast, Nef had no effect on HIV-2 neutralization by MPER-specific nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120. This suggests that Nef is genetically separable from other Nef functions, such as the ability to enhance virus infectivity and to downregulate CD4. This study demonstrates that Nif protects lentiviruses from one of the most broadly-acting classes of neutralizing antibody. This newly discovered activity for Nef has important implications for anti-HIV-1 immunity and AIDS pathogenesis.
Cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) is one of the most common malignant cancers in Southeast Asia, with incidence rates ranging from 93. 8 to 317. 6 per 100, 000 people/year in some districts of Northeast Thailand alone. Chronic infections by the food-borne human liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini have been associated with the occurrence of CCA in several Southeast Asian countries ( including Thailand and Laos ), which has led to the inclusion of this parasite amongst the Group 1 carcinogens by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. Despite the severe public health impact of OpistHorchis-induced CCA, knowledge of the molecular interactions occurring between the parasite and its snail intermediate host is scant. In this study, we utilized high-throughput ( Illumina ) sequencing and bioinformatic technologies to characterize differences in levels of gene transcription between uninfected and O. siamensis goniomphalos. Comparative analyses of gene expression profiling allowed the identification of 7, 655 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) associated to 43 distinct biological pathways, including pathways associated with immune defense mechanisms against parasites. Amongst the DEGs with immune functions, transcripts encoding distinct proteases displayed the highest down-regulation in Bithynia specimens infected by O. viverrin; conversely, transcription of genes encoding heat-shock proteins and actins was significantly up-regulated in parasite-infected snails when compared to the uninfecting counterparts. The present study lays the foundation for functional studies of genes and gene products potentially involved in immune-molecular mechanisms implicated in the ability of the parasite to successfully colonize its snail- intermediate host.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepromatosis that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system, later reaching other organs and systems. The complement receptor 1 ( CR1 ) is an important mediator of the innate immune response, mediating the entry of pathogens into phagocytes. In this study, we investigated CR1 polymorphisms, gene expression and soluble CR1 levels in a case-control study with Brazilian leprosy patients, aiming to understand the role of this receptor in differential susceptibility to the disease. Nine polymorphisms were haplotyped by multiplex PCR and sCR1. mRNA levels were measured by qPCR and s CR1 by ELISA, in up to 80 samples. Individuals with the most ancient haplotype, harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*G in exon 26 ( encoding p. 1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen ), presented twice higher susceptibility to lepersy ( OR = 2. 43, p = 0. 017 ). Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR 1 levels, thus reducing the anti-inflammatory response. Furthermore, the most recent haplotype increased susceptibility to multibacilloid leprotic disease, probably by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation. The results lead us to suggest a regulatory role for CR1, with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to Leprosy, probably in enhancing parasite-phagocytic efficiency of the parasite. Functional investigations on phagocyte efficiency of these associated haplotypes would help to clarify the role in this receptor and possibly lead to novel therapeutic strategies.
Metabolomics provides a powerful tool to analyse physiological and disease-induced biological states on the molecular level, taking into account both the organism's intrinsic properties, i. e. genetic factors, and the effects of lifestyle, diet, and environment. Recently, common genetic variants have been demonstrated to exert large effects on individual metabolic capacities called “genetically determined metabotypes”. Therefore genetic studies can help to elucidate the contribution and complex interaction of genes, proteins and metabolites in health and disease. Thus, the combination of genetic and metabolic markers is an important emerging approach for biological research. To uncover potentially confounding influences on the interpretation of metabolic results, it is important to minimize the occurring confounders on human serum metabolites in a population-based study that has not been subjected to lifestyle and dietary controls.
Genome-scale metabolic networks provide a comprehensive structural framework for modeling genotype-phenotype relationships through flux simulations. The solution space for the metabolic flux state of the cell is typically very large and optimization-based approaches are often necessary for predicting the active metabolic state under specific environmental conditions. The objective function to be used in such optimization algorithms is directly linked with the biological hypothesis underlying the model and therefore it is one of the most relevant parameters for successful modeling. Although linear combination of selected fluxes is widely used for formulating metabolic objective functions, we show that the resulting optimization problem is sensitive towards stoichiometry representation of the metabolic network. This undesirable sensitivity leads to different simulation results when using numerically different but biochemically equivalent stoichiometric representations and thereby makes biological interpretation intrinsically subjective and ambiguous. We hereby propose a new method, Minimization of Metabolites Balance ( MiMBl ), which decouples the artifacts of stoichiometrical representation from the formulation of the desired objective functions by casting objective functions using metabolite turnovers rather than fluxes. By simulating perturbed metabolic networks, we demonstrate that the use of the stoichiometer representation independent algorithms is fundamental for unambiguously linking modeling results with biological interpretation. For example, MiMBL allowed us to expand the scope of metabolic modeling in elucidating the mechanistic basis of several genetic interactions.
Plague ( Yersinia pestis infection ) is a highly virulent, re-emerging disease that has caused three pandemics in the last 2000 years. Despite its major impact on human populations, plague is primarily a disease of rodents and the fleas associated with them. We therefore investigated the relationship between disease distribution and the population genetic structure of the black rat, Rattus rattus, the main reservoir of plague in Madagascar. We conducted a comparative study of plague seroprevalence and genetic structure ( 15 microsatellite markers ) in rat populations from four geographic areas differing in topology, each covering about 150–200 km2 within the Madagascan plague focus. As expected, rat populations clearly displayed a more marked genetic structure with increasing relief, suggesting that plague distribution is not related everywhere to the effective dispersal of rats. Genetic diversity estimates suggested that plague epizootics had only a weak impact on rat population sizes. In the highlands of Madagascar, plague dissemination cannot be accounted for solely by the effective distribution of the reservoir. Human social activities may also be involved in spreading the disease in rat and human populations.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects more than 200 million people living in developing countries and up to 70 million disability-adjusted life years ( DALYs ) lost annually. Control of schistosome infection is predominantly facilitated by mass drug administration ( MDA ) of praziquantel, a safe and potent chemotherapy developed in the late 1960’s. However, mono-chemotherapy control of Schistosoma mansoni raises the spectre of drug resistance and highlights the need for developing an immunoprophylactic anti-schistosomal vaccine. In this study, we comprehensively re-analyse the S. mansoni genome to identify an expanded repertoire of eleven SmLy6 family members, including three new members. We show that the previously identified vaccine candidate Sm29 is a unique double uPAR/Ly6 domain-containing representative, which is strongly supportive of its surface localisation in endemic communities. Furthermore, we show that IgG1 ( IgG4 and IgE ) antibody responses against two surface-bound representatives ( Sm6A and Sm6B ) significantly drop when compared to rising IgG2 antibody responses. Collectively, these results expand the number of SmLy 6 family members found within S. manioma and demonstrate that surface-associated SmLy7 proteins elicit immunological responses during infection in endemic populations.
Cells in the Drosophila retina have well-defined morphologies that are attained during tissue morphogenesis. We present a computer simulation of the epithelial tissue in which the global interfacial energy between cells is minimized. Experimental data for both normal cells and mutant cells either lacking or misexpressing the adhesion protein N-cadherin can be explained by a simple model incorporating salient features of morphogenesis that include the timing of N-Cadherins expression in cells and its temporal relationship to the remodeling of cell-cell contacts. The simulations distinguish between different mechanisms of how cadherin levels are attained and controlled, and ( iii ) that the model, although conceived as an equilibrium tool, incorporates important dynamical features in morphogenesis, such as the temporal sequence of cadherins gene expression and cell-cody remodeling.
Cellular matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are proinvasive and employed by motile and invasive cells to degrade extracellular matrix ( ECM ). MT1-MMP is a potent invasion-promoting membrane protease employed by aggressive cancer cells. In the present study, we used a computational model to analyze the role of the rapid turnover of MT1 MMP at invadopodia. We found a rapid turnover in the ECM degradation by experiments and by computer simulations. The recovery depended primarily on vesicle transport, but negligibly on lateral diffusion. Thus, our experiments and simulations have established a critical role for the turnover in ECM degrading by simultaneous reductions of the turnover rate and the vesicular content of it. Furthermore, our simulations suggested synergetic contributions of proteolytic activity and MT1MMP turnover to ECM-degrading activity. Thus our computational model provides a new in silico tool to design and evaluate intervention strategies in cancer cell invasion.
The development of drug resistance in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) represents a major public health obstacle. The prevalence of drug-resistant HIV is now above 5% and increasing, driven in part by drug resistance transmitted from one infected individual to another. Transmitted drug resistance has been observed at frequencies between 2. 8% and 11. 5% in different regions of the world, rendering standard first line therapies ineffective and necessitating costlier therapies for treatment-naïve patients. Despite the increasing prevalence of the drug resistance, we still have an incomplete understanding of how drug resistance emerges and spreads spatially within an individual. Here, we use high-resolution sequencing data from four macaques infected with HIV-HIV-SHIV, a simian immunodepiciency virus encoding reverse transcriptase ( RT ), and treated with antiretroviral therapy. We find that RT is a lentivirus that produces a double-stranded DNA genome after infection of host cells, and we also find that the blood and lymph nodes are more frequently different from mucosal tissues. Our findings suggest that even oft-sampled blood does not fully capture the viral dynamics in other parts of the body, especially the gut where vRNA turnover was faster than the plasma and vDNA retained fewer wild-type viruses than other sampled compartments.
Cell lineages may be described as pathways of differentiation that begin with stem cells, progress through some number of self-renewing progenitor stages, and end with one or more terminally differentiated ( TD ) cells. However, how much of a role such feedback plays in tissue morphogenesis remains to be understood. Here we show that a particular feedback architecture in which both positive and negative feedback act on stem cells leads to the appearance of bistable or bi-modal growth behaviors, ultrasensitivity to external growth cues, local growth-driven budding, self-sustaining elongation, and the triggering of spontaneous self-organization in the form of lamellar fingers. Such behaviors arise not through regulation of cell cycle speeds, but through the control of stem or progenitally self-regulating tissues. Even though the spatial patterns that arise in this setting are the result of interactions between diffusible factors with antagonistic effects, morphogenesis is not the consequence of Turing-type instabilities.
Myopia, or nearsightedness, is the most common eye disorder worldwide, resulting primarily from excess elongation of the eye. The etiology of myopia, although known to be complex, is poorly understood. Here we report the largest ever genome-wide association study ( 45, 771 participants ) on myopia in Europeans. We performed a survival analysis on age of onset and identified 22 significant associations ( two of which are replications of earlier associations with refractive error ). Ten of the 20 novel associations identified replicate in a separate cohort of 8, 323 participants who reported if they had developed myopia before age 10. These 22 associations in total explain 2. 9% of the variance in myopia age of start and point toward a number of different mechanisms behind the development of myopic. One association is in the gene PRSS56, which has previously been linked to abnormally small eyes; one is in a gene that forms part of the extracellular matrix ( LAMA2 ) ; two are in or near genes involved in the regeneration of 11-cis-retinal ( RGR and RDH5 ) ; five are in the growth and guidance of retinal ganglion cells ( ZIC2, SFRP1 ) ; and five are involved in neuronal signaling or development. These novel findings point toward multiple genetic factors involved in development of human myopia and suggest that complex interactions between extraceptial matrix remodeling, neuronal development, and visual signals from the retina may underlie the development.
In order to move effectively, all animals must activate their muscles to move their bodies. In nearly every animal studied, this pattern of muscle activation is produced by a relatively small neural circuit called a central pattern generator ( CPG ). The CPG integrates sensory information from proprioceptors that sense body movement, and adapts the muscle activation accordingly. In the lamprey, the CPG is part of a closed loop system that activates the muscles, which causes the body to bend, stimulating the edge cells, which then affect the pattern itself. In this study, we investigate different functional forms of body curvature-based sensory feedback and evaluate their effects on steady swimming energetics and kinematics, since little is known experimentally about the functional form of curvature feedback. We consider two forms of feedback, each consistent with experimental results on lamprey proprioceptive sensory receptors. The first, referred to as directional feedback, excites or inhibits the oscillators on the same side, depending on the sign of a chosen gain parameter, and has the opposite effect on oscillator on the opposite side. We find that directional feedback does not affect beat frequency, but does change the duration of muscle activity. The second feedback model provides a symmetric excitatory or inhibitory effect to oscillators. This model tends to increase beat frequency and reduces the energetic cost to the lampreys when the gain is high and positive. Thus, these results indicate that the same magnitude of feedback can cause distinct differences in swimming performance.
The global pandemic of Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) infections is being driven mainly by the group M lineage of HIV-1, which crossed the species barrier from chimpanzees to humans about 100 years ago. By the time it started to spread beyond its epicentre in Central Africa, the virus had already accumulated considerable sequence diversity, and distinct divergent clades initiated a series of rapid expansions that gave rise to the subtypes of the virus. The global phylogeography of HIV is typically characterized by the dominance of at most a few subtypes or circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ). We developed a simple model of HIV epidemics that allowed us to monitor the competition dynamics of distinct virus strains with varying rates of transmission. Simulations were parameterized based on empirical data; we tested scenarios with varying levels of overall prevalence. The spread of the second strain occurred on a much slower time scale compared with the initial expansion of the first strain. With strains of equal transmission efficiency, the second strains were unable to invade on a time scale relevant for the history of the HIV pandemic. Our simulations confirmed a strong first comer advantage in the competition of HIV at the population level, which may explain the global phylozogeography and may influence the future evolution of the pandemic in Africa.
The organization of muscle is the product of functional adaptation over several length scales spanning from the sarcomere to the muscle bundle. One possible strategy for solving this multiscale coupling problem is to physically constrain the muscle cells in microenvironments that potentiate the organization of their intracellular space. We hypothesized that boundary conditions in the extracellular space potentiate this self-organizing process. We developed a quantitative model of how the cytoskeleton of neonatal rat ventricular myocytes organizes with respect to geometric cues in the matrix. Numerical results and in vitro assays to control myocyte shape indicated that distinct cytoskeletal architectures arise from two temporally-ordered, organizational processes: the interaction between actin fibers, premyofibrils and focal adhesions, as well as cooperative alignment and parallel bundling of nascent myofibril fibers. Our results suggest that a hierarchy of mechanisms regulate the self-assembly of the contractile cell and that a positive feedback loop is responsible for initiating the break in symmetry, potentiated by the extracllular boundary conditions, is required to polarize the contractility cytososkeleton.
The bacterium Wolbachia is currently being trialled as a biocontrol agent in several countries to reduce dengue transmission. The bacterium can invade and spread to infect all individuals within wild mosquito populations, but requires a high rate of maternal transmission, strong cytoplasmic incompatibility and low fitness costs in the host in order to do so. Additionally, extensive differences in climate, field-release protocols, urbanization level and human density amongst the sites where this bacterium has been deployed have limited comparison and analysis of the bacterium’s invasive potential. We examined key phenotypic effects of the wMel Wolbachiae strain in laboratory Aedes aegypti mosquitoes with a Brazilian genetic background to characterize its invasive potential in Rio de Janeiro. We show that the wmel strain causes strong infection, a high infection rate, low fitness cost in the mosquito, and has no evident detrimental effect on host fecundity or fertility. We then used mathematical models to describe the influence of different urban landscapes on the likelihood of Wolbachiosis to spread effectively. We predict successful invasion at all five field sites, however the conditions by which this occurs vary greatly between sites, and are strongly influenced by the size of the local mosquito population.
Histone methylation is an important epigenetic modification in regulating chromatin structure and gene expression in eukaryotic cells. Histone H3 lysine 4 methylation ( H3K4me ) can be in a mono-, di-, or trimethylated state, which has been shown to play an important role in gene expression involved in plant developmental control and stress adaptation. In this work, we identified a JmjC domain-containing protein, JMJ703, that specifically reverses all three forms of H3 K4me in rice. Loss-of-function mutation of the gene affected stem elongation and plant growth, which may be related to increased expression of cytokinin oxidase genes in the mutant. Analysis of crystal structure of the catalytic core domain of J MJ703 revealed a general structural similarity with mammalian and yeast JMJD2 proteins, suggesting that they may be involved in the specificity of this class of enzymes. In addition, several specific features were observed in the structure of c-JMJ703. Key residues that interact with cofactors Fe ( II ) and N-oxalylglycine were identified and were shown to be essential for the demethylase activity in vivo. Our data suggest that the helix-rich region ( α8–α11, aa 419–459 ) of JmJC domain may be important for the enzymatic activity of the protein.
The HIV-1 capsid is involved in all infectious steps from reverse transcription to integration site selection, and is the target of multiple host cell and pharmacologic ligands. However, structural studies have been limited to capsid monomers ( CA ), and the mechanistic basis for how these ligands influence infection is not well understood. Here we show that a multi-subunit interface formed exclusively within CA hexamers mediates binding to linear epitopes within cellular cofactors NUP153 and CPSF6. This interface is competed for by the antiretroviral compounds PF74 and BI-2. Each ligand is anchored via a shared phenylalanine-glycine ( FG ) motif to a pocket within the N-terminal domain of one monomer, and all but BI-1 make essential interactions across the N–terminal domains: C-terminus ( NTD:CTD ) interface to a second monomer. Dissociation of hexamer into CA monomers prevents high affinity interaction with CPSF1 and PF74, and abolishes binding to NUP15. The second interface is conformationally dynamic, but binding of NUP3 or CPSF4 peptides is accommodated by only one conformation. NUP6 and CPSFs6 have overlapping binding sites, but each makes unique CA interactions that, when mutated selectively, perturb cofactor dependency. These results reveal that multiple ligands share an overlapping interface in HIV-HIV capsid that is lost upon viral disassembly.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti transmits some of the most important human arboviruses, including dengue, yellow fever and chikungunya viruses. It has a large genome containing many repetitive sequences, which has resulted in the genome being poorly assembled — there are 4, 758 scaffolds, few of which have been assigned to a chromosome. To allow the mapping of genes affecting disease transmission, we have improved the genome assembly by scoring a large number of SNPs in recombinant progeny from a cross between two strains of Aedes. We find that the current genome assembly is poorly assembled, and we use this information to map the genetic susceptibility of Ae. aelesi to Brugia malayi, a parasite that causes lymphatic filariasis. We also find that there are very large regions of suppressed recombination around the centromeres, which can extend to as much as 47% of the chromosome. This work demonstrates the utility of this new genome assembly, and provides a list of candidate genes that could be affecting the trait.
Mosquito Aedes aegypti is an important vector of dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses in tropical countries. Most mosquito surveillance programs are based on the traditional household larval surveys, despite the availability of new trapping devices. We report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps, besides the larval survey, to compare their sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation. The study was conducted in five mid-sized cities, representing variations of tropical climate regimens. The results show that all investigated traps are valuable tools and could be considered in combination with vector control strategies to improve our response to dengues and other diseases transmitted by Ae. aelesi. The trap positivity indices tend to plateau at high mosquito densities. Despite this, both indices, positivity and density, agreed on the seasonality of mosquito abundance in all cities, as measured by each of the four traps. Mosquito seasonality associated preferentially with temperature than with precipitation even in areas where temperature variation is small. All investigated traps performed better than the House Index in measuring the seasonal variation in mosquito abundance and should be considered as complements or alternatives to larval surveillance.
The human cytidine deaminase APOBEC3G ( A3G ) is a potent inhibitor of retroviruses and transposable elements and is able to deaminate cytidines to uridines in single-stranded DNA replication intermediates. However, there is mounting evidence that A3Gs not only oligomerizes, but can also assemble into large RNP complexes that accumulate in cellular microdomains that are associated with RNA regulation, such as P-bodies and stress granules. We therefore asked whether the crystal structure of the related tetrameric APOBE2 ( A2 ) protein could hold clues not only into how A3g oligomerization is mediated, but also into its participation in other interactions. Here, we show that residues in A3 G that mediate A3-binding and RNA-dependent oligomerizing are required for RNA-independent oligomerizations of A3, packaging into HIV-1 virions, and the inhibition of HIV infection. In addition, we propose that occupation of the positively charged pocket by RNA promotes A3AG oligomersization and virion packaging and antiviral function.
Many agriculturally, evolutionarily, and medically important characters vary in a quantitative fashion. Unfortunately, the genes and sequence variants accounting for this variation remain largely unknown due to a variety of biological and technical challenges. Drosophila melanogaster contains high levels of sequence variation and low linkage disequilibrium, allowing us to dissect the effects of many causative variants within a single locus. Here, we take advantage of these features to identify and characterize the sequence polymorphisms that comprise major effect QTL alleles segregating at the bric-a-brac genomic region. We show that natural bric–a-bac alleles with large effects on cuticular pigmentation reflect a cumulative impact of polymorphisms in three functional regions: a promoter, a tissue-specific enhancer, and a Polycomb response element. Analysis of allele-specific expression at the Bric-A-brAC locus confirms that these polymorphisms modulate transcription at the cis-regulatory level. Our results establish that a single QTL can act through a confluence of multiple molecular mechanisms and that sequence variation in regions flanking experimentally validated functional elements can have significant quantitative effects on transcriptional activity and phenotype. These findings have important design and conceptual implications for basic and medical genomics.
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) is an important human pathogen that resides primarily in the nasopharynx of the nasal mucosa. The ability of pneumococci to adapt to the environment is a direct result of genetic exchange with the surrounding microbial community. The competence system is controlled by a tightly regulated quorum sensing system that is triggered by the extracellular accumulation of competence stimulating peptide ( CSP ). In this study, we demonstrate that CSP can stimulate the production of a diverse array of blp bacteriocins. This cross stimulation occurs through increased production and secretion of the bacteriococin pheromone, BlpC, and requires a functional competence regulatory system. We show that a highly conserved motif in the promoter of the operon encoding BlpA and its transporter mediates the upregulation by CSP. The accumulation of BlPC following CSP stimulation results in augmented activation of the entire blp locus. This study provides a model for how competition and adaptation can combine to support competitive interactions under conditions where the significant phenotypic changes induced by competence are not favored.
Poliovirus is a cytoplasmic RNA virus that infects millions of people worldwide. The virus utilizes a unique mechanism of RNA translation that involves the recruitment of ribosomes to the viral RNA for translation initiation. The interaction of cellular proteins PCBP2 and SRp20 in extracts from poliovirus-infected cells has been previously described, and these two proteins were shown to function synergistically in viral translation. To further define the mechanism of ribonucleoprotein binding, we focused on the role of the interaction between cellular proteins and SR proteins. Work described here demonstrates that SRp2 dramatically re-localizes from the nucleus to the cytopleasm of polioviruses during the course of infection. Importantly, SRP20 partially co-sediment in translation initiation complex-containing fractions, corroborating our previous in vitro interaction data. In addition, the data presented implicate the presence of this two proteins in viral translational initiation complexes. We show that in extracts of the nucleus, the SRp10 protein is associated with PCBP1 bound to the virus RNA, and this interaction functions either directly or indirectly to recruit the translation machinery to the RNA for IRES-mediated translation. Taken together, these results are consistent with a model in which the SR family of proteins functions to recruit ribosome recruitment to viral RNA in a direct or indirect manner, with the participation of additional protein-protein or protein-RNA interactions.
Neural crest ( NC ) is a population of embryonic stem cells that gives rise to numerous cell types, including the glia and neurons of the peripheral and enteric nervous systems and the melanocytes of the skin and hair. Mutations in genes and genetic pathways regulating NC development lead to a wide spectrum of human developmental disorders collectively called neurocristopathies. To identify molecular pathways that regulate NC development and to understand how alterations in these processes lead to disease, we established an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) mutagenesis screen utilizing a mouse model sensitized for NC defects, Sox10LacZ/+. Out of 71 pedigrees analyzed, we identified and mapped four heritable loci, called modifier of Sox10 expression pattern 1–4 ( msp1–4 ), which show altered NC patterning. The ENU-induced mutation does not alter protein expression, however, it is sufficient to impair ERBB3 signaling, leading to embryonic lethality. Biochemical analysis of the mutant protein showed that the subtle amino acid change is sufficient for the receptor tyrosine kinase Erbb3 to be expressed on the cell surface, but its ligand-induced phosphorylation is dramatically reduced by the mutation. These findings highlight the importance of the mutated residue for ERBB 3 receptor function and activation.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the parasitic worm Schistosoma mansoni, which is transmitted by water contact between humans and other animals. Although the prevalence of infection in endemic communities has not changed over the past 50 years, it is still thought to be low. This is because, like with many other human helminth infections, individuals remain susceptible to reinfection after treatment, with some individuals appearing more susceptible to infection and others appearing comparably resistant. This suggests that the heterogeneous nature of human water contact behaviour in particular makes it difficult to distinguish between a lack of cercarial exposure and reduced susceptibility to infection as the root cause of low levels of infection. In this study, we investigate the influence that age, sex and ethnic background have on susceptibility to reininfection after anti-helminth drug treatment, but use individual estimates of cerpenal exposure and multivariable methods in an attempt to remove noise created by environmental and behavioural heterogeneities. We then investigate whether schistosome-specific IgE immune responses could account for any remaining variations in susceptibility to S. mansoni infection. Our findings suggest that observed ethnic- and sex-related variations in S. mansoni reinfections were due to variations in cercial exposure, as opposed to biological differences in susceptibility. Age-related differences in reinfecting were not explained by exposure, however, and appeared linked to the balance of IgE and IgG4 to the tegumental antigen SmTAL1 ( formerly SmTal1 ), which itself was significantly related to resistance to reinception. This study highlights the benefit of taking a multidisciplinary approach in complex field settings; it allows the ecology of a population to be understood and thus more robust conclusions to be made.
Clonorchiasis is the most widespread parasitic fluke in East Asia. Several hyperendemic foci are scattered in China and Korea. The disease caused by infection of C. sinensis results from ingestion of its metacercariae by consumption of raw or undercooked freshwater fish. Adult worms produce excretory and secretory proteins, sperms, and eggs at 3 to 4 weeks after infection. The secretory and excretories are responsible for development of several pathological changes in the bile duct including cholangiocarcinoma and other complications. In this respect, most infected people hardly notice this infection for a long time. Therefore an accurate diagnosis and subsequent cure in early stage of infection is essential to prevent complications caused by this fluke.
Drug resistance is a rapidly emerging concern, thus prompting the development of novel therapeutics or combinatorial therapy. Currently, combinatorially therapy targets are based on knowledge of drug mode of action and/or resistance mechanisms, constraining the number of target proteins. Unbiased genome-wide screens could reveal novel genetic components within interaction networks as potential targets in combination therapies. Testing this, in the context of antimicrobial resistance, we implemented an unbiased genome-Wide screen, performed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing a Candida glabrata PDR1+ gain-of-function allele. Gain-of function mutations in this gene are the principal mediators of fluconazole resistance in this human fungal pathogen. Eighteen synthetically lethal S. cerevisia genetic mutants were identified in cells expressing C. glabratata P DR1+ alleles. One mutant, lacking the histone acetyltransferase Gcn5, was investigated further. Deletion or drug-mediated inhibition of Gcn 5 caused a lethal phenotype in C. cells expressing PDR2 alleles, which was observed in evolution experiments. The combination of the interaction between GCN5 and PDR 1gain of function may be resulting in the inhibition of histone-acetyltransferases and DNA damage events resulting from drug exposure leading to cell death. This study provides proof of concept that synthetically-lethal genetic screens can identify novel candidate proteins that when therapeutically targeted could allow effective treatment of drug-resistant infections.
Positive-strand RNA viruses pose a great threat to public health because of their simplicity and evolvability. Introduction of a modestly-sized, mRNA-sense genome is sufficient to commandeer the cell, establish infection and produce thousands of progeny in a matter of only hours. Among the least understood aspects of positive-stranded RNA virus biology is the eclipse phase of the life cycle, the events post-entry but prior to exponential amplification of the genome and assembly of infectious virus. We use poliovirus ( PV ), the type virus in the Enterovirus genus of the Picornaviridae family of viruses, as our model system. We show that PV induces membranous structures in the cytoplasm that contain phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate ( PI4P ), a component of the virion RNA that is required for genome replication. We propose that these structures serve temporally distinct functions during the PV lifecycle and that P3-encoded proteins ( 3AB and/or 3CD ) contribute to formation and function of both.
Chagas disease is a neglected trypanosomiasis with enormous social and economic impact in most countries of Latin America. Despite efforts to reduce the transmission of the parasite by controlling the hematophagous triatomine insect vector, the World Health Organization estimates that 10 million people are infected worldwide, with another 25 million at risk. The treatment of Chagas is based on the front-line drugs nifurtimox and benznidazole. These two old drugs are effective at curing the infection mostly in the acute phase, whereas the chronic phase develops over many years. In order to select the most promising enzyme inhibitors retaining trypanocidal activity for structure-activity relationship ( SAR ) studies, the most potent cruzain inhibitors were assayed against T. cruzi-infected cells. Two compounds were found to have trypanogenic activity. Using compound Nequimed42 as precursor, an SAR was established in which the 2-acetamidothiophene-3-carboxamide group was identified as essential for enzyme and parasite inhibition activities. In addition, by employing the strategy of molecular simplification, a smaller compound derived from NequIMed42 with a ligand efficiency ( LE ) of 0. 33 kcal mol−1 atom−1 was identified. Thus, we identified a novel non-peptidic, non-covalent cruzoan inhibitor as a trypanotidal agent candidate for optimization.
The yellow fever ( YF ) virus is considered the prototype member of the family Flaviviridae, which includes several other viruses of medical importance, such as the dengue, Japanese encephalitis, tick-borne encephalopathy and West Nile viruses. The vaccine is used worldwide to protect against YF infection, which remains a significant source of morbidity and mortality in the tropical areas of the world. The attenuated YF virus vaccine, which is also used worldwide, generates both long-lasting neutralizing antibodies and strong T-cell responses. However, on rare occasions, this vaccine has toxic side effects that can be fatal. This study presents the design of two non-viral DNA-based antigen formulations and the characterization of their expression and immunological properties. The two antigen formulations consist of DNA encoding the full-length envelope protein ( p/YFE ) or the full envelope protein fused to the lysosomal-associated membrane protein signal ( LAMP-1 ). Both DNA constructs were able to induce very strong T cell responses of similar magnitude against almost all epitopes that are also generated by the YF 17DD vaccine. The pL-YFE vaccine performed best overall and was able to generate high titers of anti-YF neutralizing antibody comparable to the levels elicited by the 17DD vaccination. More importantly, the pL/YF vaccine conferred 100% protection against the Yf virus in intracerebrally challenged mice. These results indicate that pL–YFE DNA is an excellent vaccine candidate and should be considered for further developmental studies.
Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of the diarrheal illness cholera, is naturally found in the marine environment. In this niche, this pathogen forms biofilms on the shells of microscopic crustaceans. The shells of these organisms are primarily composed of chitin, an insoluble polymer of β-1, 4 linked N-acetylglucosamine ( GlcNAc ). Chitin is the second most abundant biopolymer on the planet, and Vibrio species play an important role in recycling this carbon and nitrogen source in the aquatic environment. The pathway for degradation and utilization of this source is conserved among the Vibrionaceae. In addition to promoting the survival of V. cholera in the freshwater environment, biofilm formation on chitins is also important for promoting transmission of this important human pathogen to its human host. Here, we show that the nucleoid occlusion protein SlmA is required for transcriptional activation of the chb operon. SlmA binds to a specific region of the genome, and in vivo, we find that this interaction is required to activate this locus and for chitobiose utilization. This study identifies a novel role for SlmA as a transcriptional regulator in addition to its established role as a cell division licensing factor.
Dynamic modeling is essential for understanding the behavior of biological systems. A major factor that has hindered wider adoption is the lack of easy-to-use computational frameworks that facilitate access to non-expert users. In this work, we present a nonlinear programming ( NLP ) framework for the scalable solution of parameter estimation problems that arise in dynamic modeling of microbial community models. The proposed framework uses cutting-edge modeling and solution tools which are computationally efficient, robust, and easy to-use. Specifically, our framework uses a time discretization approach that: i ) avoids repetitive simulations of the dynamic model, ii ) enables fully algebraic model implementations and computation of derivatives, and iii ) enables the use of nonlinear interior point solvers that exploit sparse and structured linear algebra techniques. We demonstrate these capabilities by solving estimation problems for synthetic human gut microbiome community models in less than 3 minutes. We show that the proposed framework can be broadly applied to dynamic models of complex biological systems and enables the implementation of sophisticated estimation techniques to quantify parameter uncertainty, to diagnose observability/uniqueness issues, and to handle outliers.
West Nile virus ( WNV ) is a neurotropic flavivirus endemic to parts of the Americas, Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. WNV naturally cycles between mosquitoes and birds but also infects humans and other animals. Since its introduction to North America in 1999, WNV has become the leading cause of mosquito-borne epidemic encephalitis in the United States. From 1999 to 2012 the number of WNV infections has totaled 37, 088 cases of which 16, 114 cases were reported to be neuroinvasive and 1, 549 were fatal. The ability to track changes in gene expression following viral infection is paramount to understanding viral pathogenesis. In this study, we evaluated the nCounter platform for rapid gene expression analysis in a common outbred mouse model of neuroinvasive WNV infection. We found that WNV RNA was differentially expressed in spleen, lung, liver, kidney and brain of infected mice. Similar gene and protein expression kinetics were found for Ccl2, Ccl3, Cxcl4 and Ccl5 and correlated with the presence of infectious virus.
In Mozambique, the majority of rabies outbreaks are unreported and data on the epidemiological features of human rabies and animal bites are scarce. In Maputo City, the capital of Maputo Province, an outbreak of human Rabies in adjacent Maputo and Matola cities in 2014 prompted us to investigate the epidemiology, clinical features and risk factors of animal bites in the two cities. Fourteen cases of human disease were detected in Maputo city between April and August 2014, all of whom had been admitted to hospital. All had a recent history of dog bite. Of the 14 rabid dogs, only one had been immunized. 819 cases were registered, of which 64. 6% ( 529/819 ) were from Maputo. Dogs were responsible for 97. 8% of all animal bites, but only 27. 0% ( 126/467 ) were immunized, showing that rabies is seriously under-reported. Factors significantly associated with human rabie were: age <15 years ( p = 0. 05 ), bite by stray dog, deep wound, bite in the head ( p. 0. 02 ), deep wounds ( p. 0. 001 ), no use of soap and water ( p <. 01 ), and no post-exposure prophylaxis ( p<0. 01. 00 ). Implementation of control measures for rabies was poor in the city and adjoining Matola City, where cases of animal rabies were strongly associated with bites by stray and unvaccinated dogs and irregular implementation of post-Exposure measures. Overall, we recommend aggressive interventions that include regular canine mass vaccination campaigns, improvement of the provision of vaccines to humans and animals, accompanied by regular campaigns to remove stray dogs and massive education in communities and primary schools.
Febrile seizures ( FS ) are the most common seizure disorder of early childhood, and exhibit a prevalence of 2–5% in European and North American children. In this study, we identified a new gene, SCN9A encoding Nav1. 7, in a family with a history of FS. In 21 affected members, we uncovered a potential mutation in a highly conserved amino acid, p. N641Y, in the large cytoplasmic loop between transmembrane domains I and II that was absent from 586 ethnically matched population control chromosomes. To establish a functional role for this mutation in seizure susceptibility, we introduced the orthologous mutation into the murine Scn9a ortholog using targeted homologous recombination. We found that the SCN1A mutation in our large K4425 FS family, and the significantly reduced seizure threshold and enhanced kindling acquisiton rate phenotypes conferred uniquely by the same mutation introduced into the SCn9A gene, provide strong evidence for a role of SCN 9A in FS and in Dravet syndrome.
In many cases the growth of a tissue is specified by a local polarity-based axiality system. In many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how these orientations are specified. One view is that orientations can be specified through stresses in the tissue ( axial-based system ). Another possibility is that the orientations of growth are specified independently of stresses through molecular signalling. The axial system has recently been explored through computational modelling. In this paper we develop and apply a framework and software implementation for the growing polarised Tissue ( GPT-framework ). This framework provides a working hypothesis for how growth is specified and shows how reorientation of growth can account for key observations. The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue. This constraint leads to the emergence of features such as curvature that were not directly specified by the regulatory networks. Resultant growth feeds back to influence spatial arrangements and local orientations in tissue, allowing complex shapes to emerge from simple rules. Moreover, asymmetries may emerge through interactions between polarity fields.
Early human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection is characterized by a series of immune responses that are elicited almost simultaneously. These responses exert strong selective pressures on different parts of HIV’s genome, and select for mutations that escape recognition and are thus beneficial to the virus. Some studies have revealed that the later these escape mutations emerge, the more slowly they go to fixation. This pattern of escape rate decrease ( ERD ) can arise by distinct mechanisms. In particular, in large populations with high beneficial mutation rates interference among different escape strains –an effect that can emerge in evolution with asexual reproduction and results in delayed fixation times of beneficial mutations compared to sexual reproduction– could significantly impact the escape rates of mutations. In this paper, we investigated how interference between these concurrent escape mutations affects their escape rates in systems with multiple epitopes, and whether it could be a source of the ERD pattern. We found that interference effects can be explained by the underexponential decline of escape rates over time. Our results confirm that interference effect should be considered when analyzing HIV escape mutations.
Cancer is a highly complex phenomenon. The success of current treatment choices depends on the extent of the disease at diagnosis; however, overall prognosis remains poor. The use of chemotherapy in combination with another agent remains the standard of care in NSCLC. The ability of such a model to predict the therapeutic outcome depends greatly on the accuracy of the patient-specific estimates of its parameters at the time of diagnosis. In the present work a mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment is applied for the estimation of a plausible value range of the cell killing efficacy of various cisplatin-based doublet regimens. Among others, the model incorporates the cancer related mechanism of uncontrolled proliferation, population heterogeneity, hypoxia and treatment resistance. The methodology is based on the provision of tumor volumetric data at two time points, before and after or during treatment. It takes into account the effect of tumor microenvironment and cell repopulation on treatment outcome. A thorough sensitivity analysis based on one-factor-at-a-time and latin hypercube sampling/partial rank correlation coefficient approaches has established the volume growth rate and the growth fraction at diagnosis as key features for more accurate estimates. The present work provides a quantitative framework for the estimation of the in-vivo cell-killing ability of various chemotherapies. Correlation studies of such estimates with the molecular profile of patients could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions.
Bacterial biofilms are specialized niches in which bacteria respond to local cues, leading to genetically and metabolically distinct subpopulations exhibiting high tolerance to extracellular stresses such as antibiotics. In this study, we used random transposon mutagenesis to identify biofilm-specific tolerant mutants normally exhibited by bacteria located in heterogeneous niches. We demonstrated that starvation for most amino acids induced tolerance to the fluoroquinolone ofloxacin, a fluoroquolone targeting DNA gyrase. We further demonstrated that the biofilm tolerance to ofloxin was fully dependent on a functional SOS response upon starvation to both amino acids and carbon source and partially dependent on the stringent response upon leucine starvation. Our results therefore show that starvation in biofilm bacteria induces a biofil-specific high tolerance towards fluoroquequinolones, which is dependent on biofilm age. Our findings therefore suggest that the SOS stress response induced in heter heterogeneous and nutrient-deprived biofilm microenvironments is a molecular mechanism leading to biofilm–specific high antibiotic tolerance.
Plasmodium falciparum malaria is caused by the parasite-infected erythrocytes. Invasion of erythropoietic erytherapeutics is a complex multi-step process that is mediated by specific molecular interactions between red cell surface receptors and parasite protein ligands that are localized in apical organelles called micronemes and rhoptries. Here, we identify cAMP as a key regulator that triggers the timely secretion of microneme proteins enabling receptor-engagement and invasion. We demonstrate that exposure of merozoites to a low K+ environment, typical of blood plasma, activates a bicarbonate-sensitive cytoplasmic adenylyl cyclase to raise cytosolic cAMP levels and activate protein kinase A, which regulates micronemic secretion. We also show that cAMP regulates merozite cytosol Ca2+ levels via induction of an Epac pathway. Our identification of the different elements in cAMP-dependent signaling pathways that regulate micronema secretion during invasion provides novel targets to inhibit blood stage parasite growth and prevent malaria.
Strongyloides stercoralis is one of the most neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ). It is a soil-transmitted nematode that can infect a new host by penetrating intact skin. The larvae thrive in warm, moist/wet soil. Walking barefoot and engaging in work involving skin contact with soil, as well as low sanitary standards are risk factors for infection. The diagnostic methods most commonly used for S. stercorhabditis infection consume more resources and time than the most commonly applied methods and hence, are rarely used in potentially endemic settings of resource poor countries. Our findings show high infection prevalence rates in the general population in selected countries and geographical regions, and S. Stercorali infection is prominent in several risk groups. Adequate information on the prevalence is still lacking from many countries. However, current information underscore that S. s. starboris must not be neglected. Further assessments in socio-economic and ecological settings are needed and integration into global helminth control is warranted.
Circadian rhythms are daily changes in gene expression and physiology that persist even in the absence of external environmental cues. In mammals, such rhythms are organized in a hierarchical fashion: at the tissue-level, the brain’s suprachiasmatic nucleus serves as the master pacemaker and keeps individual cells in tight synchrony, while coupling between circadian oscillations in peripheral tissues in vivo or cultured reporter cells in vitro is thought to be very weak or absent entirely. In this study, we show that changes to the damping rate of population-level bioluminescence recordings can be reliably inferred from the changes in noise, and one that can be applied to future and existing high-throughput circadian screens. Using single-cell fibroblast data, we first show directly that higher noise at the population level results in faster damping, and confirm that such a change can be explained by small molecule modulators. Next, we demonstrate using a mathematical model that changes in damping are sufficient to explain the observed damping rates. Finally, we hypothesize that the unperturbed clock is highly optimized for robust rhythms, as very few gene perturbations are capable of simultaneously increasing amplitude and lowering stochastic noise. Our results should prove especially important in the future search for small molecule circadian therapeutics.
The recent increase in antibiotic resistance in pathogenic bacteria calls for new approaches to drug-target selection and drug development. One promising target is the essential bacterial cytoskeletal protein FtsZ, which plays a central role in cell division in both eubacteria and archaea. Recent work on its allosteric inhibitor, PC190723, revealed in vitro activity on Staphylococcus aureus, but the mechanism of drug action and its effect on Ftsz in other bacterial species are unclear. Here, we use PocketFEATURE, a statistical method that scores the similarity between pairs of small-molecule binding sites based on 3D structure information about the local microenvironment, and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations, to investigate the structural properties of the drug-binding pocket. We observed that species and nucleotide-binding state have significant impacts on the binding site, with substantially disparate microenvironments for bacterial species not from the Staphyococcus genus. Our results demonstrate that a drug binding pocket can vary significantly across species, genetic perturbations, and in different polymerization states, yielding important information for the further development of FTSZ inhibitors as universal, cross-species bactericides.
Lentiviral integrase ( IN ) is a key antiviral drug target, and its active form is a tetramer ( dimer of dimers ). LEDGF accounts for the characteristic propensity of Lentivirus to integrate within active transcription units and is required for efficient viral replication. We now present a crystal structure containing the N-terminal and catalytic core domains ( NTD and CCD ) of HIV-2 IN in complex with the IN binding domain ( IBD ) of LEDGF. The structure extends the known IN–LEDGF interface, elucidating primarily charge–charge interactions between the NTD of IN and the IBD. A constellation of acidic residues on the I BD severely affect interaction with all lentiviral INs tested so far. We show that the novel NTD–IBD contacts are critical for the stimulation of concerted lentivirus DNA integration by LEDGF in vitro and for its function during the early steps of HIV replication. Furthermore, the new structural details enabled us to engineer a mutant of HIV that primarily functions only when presented with a complementary LEDGF mutant. These findings provide a structural basis for the high affinity lentivirine IN– LEDGF interaction and pave the way for the development of new LEDGF-based targeting technologies for gene therapy.
Cells of different organs at different ages have an intrinsic set of kinetics that dictates their behavior. Transformation into cancer cells will inherit these kinetics, and favorable alterations that increase cellular fitness will manifest themselves and accelerate tumor progression. We set out to investigate the emerging intratumoral heterogeneity and to determine the evolutionary trajectories of the combination of cell-intrinsic kinetics. We develop a cellular automaton model that tracks the temporal evolution of the malignant subpopulation of so-called cancer stem cells ( CSC ) as these cells are exclusively able to initiate and sustain tumors. We explore orthogonal cell traits, including cell migration to facilitate invasion, spontaneous cell death due to genetic drift after accumulation of irreversible deleterious mutations, symmetric cancer stem cell division, and telomere length and erosion as a mitotic counter for inherited non-stem cancer cell proliferation potential. Our study suggests that proliferation potential is the strongest modulator of tumor growth. Early increase in proliferation potential yields larger populations of non- stem cancer cells ( CC ) that compete with CSC and thus inhibit CSC division while a reduction in proliferation capacity loosens such inhibition and facilitates frequent CSC cell division. Our work suggests that the clonal diversity captured in single tumor biopsy samples represents only a small proportion of the total number of phenotypes.
Many zoonotic, novel infectious diseases in humans appear as sporadic infections with spatially and temporally restricted outbreaks, as seen with influenza A ( H5N1 ). Adaptation is often a key factor for successfully establishing sustained human-to-human transmission. Here we use simple mathematical models to describe different adaptation scenarios with particular reference to spatial heterogeneity within the human population. We present analytical expressions for the probability of emergence per introduction, as well as the waiting time to a successful emergence event. Furthermore, we derive general analytical results for the statistical properties of emergence events, including the probability distribution of outbreak sizes. We compare our analytical results with a stochastic model, which has previously been studied computationally. Our results suggest that, for typical connection strengths between communities, spatial heterogeneity has only a weak effect on outbreak size distributions, and on the risk of emergence. For example, if or larger, any village connected to a large city by just ten commuters a day is, effectively, just a part of the city when considering the chances of emergence and the outbreak size distribution.
Wild birds have been implicated in the emergence of human and livestock influenza. The successful prediction of viral spread and disease emergence, as well as formulation of preparedness plans, have been hampered by a critical lack of knowledge of viral movements between different host populations. The patterns of virus spread and subsequent risk posed by wild bird viruses therefore remain unpredictable. Here we analyze genomic data collected over a 34-year period of continuous surveillance of avian influenza A virus ( AIV ) in North American migratory birds. We use a Bayesian statistical framework to test hypotheses of viral migration, population structure and patterns of genetic reassortment. Our results reveal that despite the high prevalence of Charadriiformes infected in Delaware Bay this host population does not appear to significantly contribute to the North American AIV diversity sampled in Anseriformes. In contrast, influenza viruses sampled from Anserunes in Alberta are representative of the AIV population circulating in North America. Our large-scale analysis showed that the long-term persistence of AIV was independent of bird flyways with migration between populations throughout North America, and that such diffusion may be critical for the survival and persistence of novel virus lineages introduced to North American wild birds.
Hemagglutinin ( HA ) is the major surface glycoprotein of influenza A viruses. It has been generally known that the HA subtypes of influenza viruses are principally defined by neutralization or hemaglutination inhibition tests using polyclonal antisera to the respective subtypes. However, it is generally believed that the neutralizing antibodies are not broadly cross-reactive among HA subtype. In this study, we generated a novel monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific to HA, designated MAb S139/1, which showed heterosubtypic protection against a variety of HA viruses. This antibody was found to have broad reactivity to many other viruses ( H1, H2, H3, H5, H9, and H13 subtypes ) in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. We further found that the MAb was broadly crossreactive to different strains of H1 and H2 subtypes, and that it inhibited the viral infectivity by blocking receptor binding of the virus. Furthermore, passive immunization of mice with this antibody provided heterosuble protection. The present study supports the notion that cross-resistance antibodies play some roles in heterosubsubtyp immunity against influenza A virus infection, and underscores the potential therapeutic utility of cross-active antibodies against influenza.
Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infection that occurs predominantly in infected adults who become immunosuppressed, whether by iatrogenic means or otherwise. It is increasingly acknowledged that this infection represents a significant public health challenge and that action is required to deal with the problem, however there is no general agreement as to what these measures should be. In this study, we assessed the effect of treatment with ivermectin on the prevalence of infection in an Aboriginal community in northern Australia. We found that treatment was highly effective and resulted in a sustained fall in the prevalence in the study group ( Initial prevalence 35. 3%, 3 year prevalence 5. 8%, McNemar’s chi2 = 56. 5, p<0. 001 ). We also found a small group of subjects with persistently positive ELISA serology despite repeated treatment. This suggests that control of S. stercoris infection in this cohort appears to be feasible using pharmacological treatment alone.
Prion diseases are caused by a misfolded isoform of the prion protein, PrPSc. Prion strains can interfere with each other when a long-incubation period strain ( i. e. blocking strain ) inhibits the conversion of a short-incuble strain ( e. non-blocking strain ). This is consistent with subsequent studies indicating that the relative onset of conversion of the blocking and superinfecting strains corresponds with the occurrence of strain interference. In this study, we show that co-infection of animals with combinations of long incubation period strains failed to identify evidence of strain strain interference in vivo. Importantly, we hypothesize the abundance of PrPC is not limiting in vivo or in vitro resulting in prion strains with relatively low prion conversion efficiency to amplify independently. Overall, this observation changes the paradigm of the interactions of prion strain strains and has implications for interspecies transmission and emergence of strains from a mixture.
Allosteric regulation is intrinsic to the control of many metabolic and signal-transduction pathways. It is described as the effect that the binding of a ligand at one site influences the function of a distant site which binds with substrate. It was previously thought that intrinsic disorder is favorable for maximizing the allosteric coupling. Here, we propose a comprehensive ensemble model to compare the roles of both order-order transition and disorder-order transitions in allostericity. It reveals that the MWC pathway ( order-disorder transition ) has a higher probability than the EAM pathway ( disorder-ordering transition ) in allostery, suggesting a complicated role of IDPs/IDRs in regulatory proteins. In addition, an analytic formula for the maximal allosterical coupling response is obtained, which shows that too stable or too unstable state is unfavorable to endow allosteries, and is thus helpful for rational design of allosterics drugs.
Prostate cancer is a major cause of male death in the Western world, but few frequent genetic alterations that drive prostate cancer initiation and progression have been identified. β-Catenin is essential for many developmental processes and has been implicated in tumorigenesis in many tissues, including prostate cancer. However, expression studies on human prostate cancer samples are unclear on the role this protein plays in this disease. We have used in vivo genetic studies in the embryo and adult to extend our understanding of the role of β- Catenin in the normal and neoplastic prostate. Our studies demonstrate that β-catenin regulates the number of progenitors in the epithelial buds and regulates a discrete network of genes, including c-Myc and Nkx3. 1. Deletion of β -Catenins in a Pten deleted model of castration-resistant prostate cancer demonstrated it is dispensable for disease progression in this setting. Complementary overexpression experiments, through in vivo protein stabilization, showed that β - Catenins promotes the formation of squamous epithelia during prostate development, even in the absence of androgens. β β-Cenin overexpressed in combination with Pten loss was able to drive progression to invasive carcinoma together with squamous metaplasia. These studies provide novel information on cancer progression pathways that give rise to lethal prostate disease in humans.
Informed consent is a fundamental prerequisite for ethical research in developing countries where disease burden is high. Understanding the role of local factors is important for undertaking ethical research. In this study, we assessed factors relating to information and communication during the process of informed consent, and the approach that should be followed for gaining consent. The study was conducted prior to a family-based genetic study among people with podoconiosis ( non-filarial elephantiasis ) in southern Ethiopia. We adapted a method of rapid assessment validated in The Gambia. The methodology was entirely qualitative, involving focus-group discussions and in-depth interviews. Discussions were conducted in the community, fieldworkers, researchers, staff of the local non-governmental organisation ( NGO ) working on prevention and treatment of podoconia, and community leaders. We found that the extent of use of everyday language, the degree to which expectations of potential participants were addressed and the techniques of presentation of information had considerable impact on comprehension of information provided about research. We also found that adopting locally trusted individuals and preceding individual consent with community sensitization were considered the optimal means of communication. Prevailing poverty among patients, the absence of alternative treatment facilities, and participants' trust in the local NGO were identified as potential barriers for obtaining genuine informed consent. Researchers should evaluate the effectiveness of consent processes in providing appropriate information in a comprehensible manner and in supporting voluntary decision-making on a study-by-study basis.
Cell proliferation is the common characteristic of all biological systems. The immune system insures the maintenance of body integrity on the basis of a continuous production of diversified T lymphocytes in the thymus. This involves processes of proliferation, differentiation, selection, death and migration of lymphocytes to peripheral tissues, where proliferation also occurs upon antigen recognition. Quantification of cell proliferation dynamics requires specific experimental methods and mathematical modelling. Here, we assess the impact of genetics and aging on the immune system by investigating the dynamics of proliferation of T lymphocyte across their differentiation through thymos and spleen in mice. Our investigation is based on single-cell multicolour flow cytometry analysis revealing the active incorporation of a thymidine analogue during S phase after pulse-chase-pulse experiments in vivo, versus cell DNA content. A generic mathematical model of state transition simulates through Ordinary Differential Equations ( ODEs ) the evolution of single cell behaviour during various durations of labelling. It allows us to fit our data, to deduce proliferation rates and estimate cell cycle phase durations in sub-populations. Our results reveal that T cell proliferation is highly heterogeneous but with a specific “signature” that depends upon genetic origins, is specific to cell differentiation stages in Thymus, is altered with age. These results are discussed in the perspective of T cell dynamics and proliferation, where aging and genetic peculiarities could be of importance.
Mammalian mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) is a double-stranded circular molecule that codes for 13 of the 87 proteins that constitute the OXPHOS system. Mutations in mt-tRNA genes are known to be responsible for a wide variety of diseases in humans whose common characteristic is the impairment of the mitochondrial protein synthesis. To date, the only source of this type of mutations is human patients. We report here the generation and characterization of the first mitochondrial tRNA pathological mutation in mouse cells. This mutation recapitulates the molecular hallmarks of a disease-causing mutation described in humans, an m. 4290T>C transition affecting also the mt-Ti gene. We could determine that the pathogenic molecular mechanism, induced by both the mouse and the human mutations, is a high frequency of abnormal folding of the tRNAIle that cannot be charged with isoleucine. We demonstrate that the cells harboring the mouse or human mutant tRNA have exacerbated mitochondrial biogenesis triggered by an increase in mitochondrial ROS production as a compensatory response. This mechanism may generate an epistatic-like effect ( “functional epistasis” ) by which a partial suppression of deleterious mutations in mitochondrial tRNAs is exerted.
In mammals, dosage compensation is achieved by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes, together with X inactivation in females. Up-regulation of the active X chromosome may be controlled by DNA sequence–based and/or epigenetic mechanisms that double the X output potentially in response to autosomal factor ( s ). To determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy, we used expression array analyses to determine the global expression of most Xlinked genes versus autosomal genes in triploid and diploid cells. We found that the average X:autosome ( X:A ) expression ratio was about 1 in normal diploids, but was lower in Triploid cell cultures with one active X and higher ( 1. 32–1. 4 ) in triplex cells with two active X's. Thus, overall X expression does not strictly respond to an autosomal transcription factor, nor is it adjusted to achieve a perfect balance. The unbalanced X:Autosome expression ratios that we observed could contribute to the abnormal phenotypes associated with triploids. We also found that expression of a small subset of genes apparently responds to the cell ploid, suggesting that dosage of these genes is critical.
The identification of genetic loci undergoing adaptation is a central project of evolutionary biology. With the advent of sequencing technologies, a variety of statistical tests have been developed to quantify selection pressures acting on protein-coding regions. Among these, the dN/dS ratio is one of the most widely used, owing in part to its simplicity and robustness. However, the relationship between selection and dN has been interpreted as a monotonic function, and it may be impossible to infer selection pressures from dN. Here, we study the expected distribution of dN in a population under selection. We find that in this context, the hallmark signature of positive selection over divergent lineages is expected to produce dN+/-1 among population samples. Moreover, we show that the hallmark characteristic signature of negative selection over divergence lineages, dN/-1, is violated within a population. These results have significant implications for the interpretation of dNs/dSS measurements among population-genetic samples.
Natural selection has shaped patterns of genetic variation across the genome. However, the effect of natural selection on neutral sequence divergence ( inter-species differences ) remains ambiguous. While empirical studies have reported correlations between divergence and recombination, which is interpreted as evidence for natural selection reducing linked neutral divergence, theory argues otherwise, especially for species that have diverged long ago. Here we address these outstanding issues by examining whether natural selection can affect divergence between both closely and distantly related species. We show that neutral divergence between closely related species ( e. g. human-primate ) is negatively correlated with functional content and positively correlated with estimates of background selection from primates. These patterns persist after accounting for the confounding factors of hypermutable CpG sites, GC content, and biased gene conversion. Coalescent models indicate that even when the contribution of ancestral polymorphism to divergence is small, background selection in the ancestral population can still explain a large proportion of the variance in divergence across the genomes, generating the observed correlations. Our findings reveal that, contrary to previous intuition, natural selection indirectly affects linked neutral diversity and divergence. Though we cannot formally exclude the possibility that the direct effects of purifying selection drive some of these patterns, such a scenario would be possible only if more of the genome is under purifying natural selection than currently believed. Our work has implications for understanding the evolution of genomes and interpreting patterns of variation.
Circadian oscillations of gene expression, physiology, and behavior are found in a wide range of organisms. They are governed by temporally regulated feedback loops in which transcription factors activate the expression of their own inhibitors. In the Drosophila circadian oscillator, the CLOCK ( CLK ) and CYCLE ( TIMELESS ) proteins activate expression of the period ( per ) and timeless ( tim ) genes at the end of the day. The CLK activator is phosphorylated by the DOUBLETIME ( DBT ) kinase complex, CK2α, and the NEMO kinases. The CK2 α subunit is recruited onto PER, TIM, and CLK mainly during late night, inducing CLK hyperphosphorylation in vivo and CK2 phosphorylates CLK in vitro. In addition, downregulation of CK2β decreases CLK phosphorylation and increases per and tim transcription. Our results indicate that CK2 plays a role in CLK degradation while reducing its activity. Since the CK1 kinase promotes CLK ubiquitylation, we suggest that CLK stability and transcriptional activity result from counteracting effects of CK1 and CK 2.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiological agent of Chagas' disease, and it is transmitted in nature to vertebrate hosts through hematophagous insects from the Reduviidae family. During their development within insects, the parasites undergo profound morphological changes, modulating surface molecules to enable interactions with specific insect tissues that are essential for their survival, development and successful transmission to the vertebrate host. Here, we have investigated whether the cysteine peptidase, cruzipain, is involved in the interaction of T. cruzi with the insect midgut. We show that the parasite adhesion to the insect gut was drastically reduced in comparison to wild-type parasites. We also show that parasites isolated after passage in the insect presented a drastic enhancement in the expression of surface cruzipan. These data highlight, for the first time, that cruzipains contributes to the interaction with the invertebrate host, which may facilitate parasite metacyclogenesis in the vector.
Cytoplasmic dynein is a microtubule-dependent motor protein that functions in mitotic cells during centrosome separation, metaphase chromosome congression, anaphase spindle elongation, and chromosome segregation. Dynein also functions during interphase for vesicle transport and organelle positioning. While numerous cellular processes require cytoplasma dyneins, the mechanisms that target and regulate this microtubules remain largely unknown. By screening a conditional Caenorhabditis elegans cytoplyasmic dli-1 heavy chain mutant at a semipermissive temperature with a genome-wide RNA interference library to reduce gene functions, we have isolated and characterized twenty genes that, when reduced in function, suppress the embryonic lethality associated with a temperature-sensitive ( ts ) allele of the dyneIN HC gene. Many of the suppressor proteins localize to subcellular sites that overlap with those reported by others for the dyNEin heavy chain. Furthermore, knocking down any one of four putative dyneine accessory chains suppresses the conditional heavy chain mutants, suggesting that some accessory chains negatively regulate heavy chain function. We also identified 29 additional genes that suppress conditional mutations not only in dyneatin but also in loci required for unrelated essential processes. In conclusion, we show that conserved but nonessential genes contribute to dyneinic function during the essential process of mitosis.
During somatic differentiation, the germline nucleus is destroyed and a new somatic nucleus differentiates from a copy of its germline. During somatic development, programmed genome rearrangements ( PGR ) are mobilized to safeguard genome integrity. Because of their unique nuclear dimorphism, ciliates are powerful unicellular eukaryotic models to study the mechanisms involved in PGR. In Paramecium tetraurelia, the development of the somatic nuclei involves massive PGR, including the precise elimination of at least 45, 000 germline sequences ( Internal Eliminated Sequences, IES ). We have focused our analysis on the development-specific Ku70/Ku80c heterodimer, which is the most upstream actor of the C-NHEJ pathway. We show that Ku is required for the introduction of programmed DNA cleavage at IES boundaries, and that Ku70a and Ku80c co-purify as a complex when overproduced in a heterologous system.
Prion diseases are fatal neurodegenerative diseases that affect both humans and animals. The disease pathology is characterized by deposits of protease-resistant prion protein ( PrPRes ), extensive vacuolation plus microgliosis and astrocytosis. Although the molecular mechanisms that eventually lead to neuronal death, or the mechanism by which neurotoxicity occurs, still remain unresolved. In this study, we used laser capture microdissection to isolate hippocampal CA1 neurons and determined their pre-clinical transcriptional response during prion infection. We found that gene expression within these neurons is dynamic and characterized by distinct phases of activity. We also found that a major cluster of genes is altered during early stages of disease after which expression either returns to basal levels, or alternatively undergoes a direct reversal during clinical disease. Strikingly, we show that this cluster contains a signature highly reminiscent of synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartic acid ( NMDA ) receptor signaling and the activation of neuroprotective pathways. Additionally, genes involved in neuronal projection and dendrite development were also altered throughout the disease, culminating in a general decline of gene expression for synaptic proteins. Our findings suggest that prion replication results in the persistent stimulation of a programmed response that is mediated, at least in part, by synaptic NMDA receptor activity that initially promotes cell survival and neurite remodelling. However, this response is terminated prior to the onset of clinical symptoms in the infected hippocampus, seemingly pointing to a critical juncture in the disease. Manipulation of these early neuroprotect pathways may redress the balance between degeneration and survival, providing a potential inroad for treatment.
Human visceral leishmaniasis ( HVL ) is the most severe form of the tropical disease, and is caused by infection of mice with the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani. The disease is characterized by focal accumulation of inflammatory cells in the liver, forming discrete “granulomas” within which the parasite is eventually eliminated. To shed new light on fundamental aspects of granuloma formation and function, we have developed an in silico Petri net model that simulates the progression of disease as seen during experimental infection and faithfully predicted many of the changes in cellular composition seen within granulomas over time. Our results indicate that granulomatous inflammation is most strongly influenced through the action of IL-10 produced by infected Kupffer cells themselves rather than by infiltrating leucocytes. These results provide new insight into how effector mechanisms may be regulated within the granuleoma, and a new tool to interpret how pharmacologic interventions may operate.
The transcriptional regulatory machinery of a gene can be viewed as a computational device, with transcription factor concentrations as inputs and expression level as the output. This view begs the question: what kinds of computations are possible? We show that different parameterizations of a simple chemical kinetic model of transcriptional regulation are able to approximate all four standard arithmetic operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, as well as various equality and inequality operations. This contrasts with other studies that emphasize logical or digital notions of computation in biological networks. We demonstrate by designing a gene that approximates the cosine function.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a medically important arthropod-borne virus ( arbovirus ) transmitted by mosquitoes in both sylvatic and urban cycles in the Americas. In humans, ChIKV infection leads to a febrile illness, denominated Chikunya fever, commonly associated with more intense and debilitating outcomes. Here, we sequenced CHIKVs genomes directly from clinical samples and showed for the first time the presence of two CHikV genotypes simultaneously circulating in the same region. Moreover, our results show evidence of coinfection of the Asian/Caribbean genotypes in naturally infected human individuals. In addition, our NGS data supports the findings of simultaneous infection by these two genotypes, suggesting that coinfections might be more common than previously thought in highly endemic areas.
Horizontal acquisition of DNA by bacteria dramatically increases genetic diversity and hence successful bacterial colonization of several niches, including the human host. A relevant issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates in the regulatory networks of the bacterial cell. The global modulator H-NS targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature. Here we provide evidence that plasmid-encoded H- NS-like proteins have evolved to selectively silence HGT and core genome genes and differentially modulate HGT DNA. In turn, differential regulation of both gene lineages by resident chromosomal HNS requires a helper protein: the Hha protein. Tight silencing of HGT- and core genes is accomplished by H-N-Hha complexes. In contrast, core genes are modulated by the chromosomal form of H-S. Remarkably, the presence of Hha-like protein is restricted to the Enterobacteriaceae. In addition, conjugative plasmids encoding H-Ns variants have hitherto been isolated only from members of the family. Thus, the H-HNS system in enteric bacteria presents unique evolutionary features. The capacity to selectively discriminate between core and core DNA may help to maintain horizontally transmitted DNA in silent form and may give these bacteria a competitive advantage in adapting to new environments, including host colonization.
Leishmania is a protozoan parasite that causes a range of diseases in man, termed the leishmaniases. These include the non-fatal chronic cutaneous lesions arising from L. major infection and the visceralising disease, most commonly associated with L. donovani infection in the Indian sub-continent, L. chagasi in Brazil and L. infantum in the Mediterranean basin. The relative contribution of these different components may enhance our understanding of pathogenicity in the Leishmania species. We have used customised oligonucleotide microarrays to confirm that all of the differentially distributed genes identified by genome comparisons are expressed in intracellular amastigotes, with only a few of these subject to regulation at the RNA level. We show that only ∼9% of the genes analysed are regulated in their RNA expression during the L. braziliensis life cycle, a figure consistent with that observed in other Leishmann species. This suggests that parasite genes are pre-adapted for intraceleal survival and undergo little dynamic modulation of gene expression at the mRNA level.
Amphimeriasis is a fish-borne disease caused by the liver fluke Amphimerus spp. that has recently been reported as endemic in the tropical Pacific side of Ecuador with a high prevalence in humans and domestic animals. The diagnosis is based on the stool examination to identify parasite eggs, but it lacks sensitivity. Additionally, the morphology of the eggs may be confounded with other liver and intestinal flukes. No immunological or molecular methods have been developed to date. In this study, we have developed and evaluated, for the first time, a specific and sensitive LAMP assay for the specific detection of Amphimeros sp. DNA in human stool samples. The specificity and sensitivity of both PCR and LAMP were evaluated. The detection limit was 1 pg of genomic DNA. Field testing was done using 44 human stool specimens collected from localities where fluke is endemic. Twenty-five samples were microscopy positive for Amphimerum sp. eggs detection. In molecular testing, PCR F3-B3 was ineffective when DNA from fecal samples was used. The diagnostic parameters for the sensitivity and specificity were calculated for our LAMPhimerus assay, which were 76. 67% and 80. 77% respectively.
Autophagy ( hereafter autophagy ) is a self-degrading and self-renewal pathway in eukaryotic cells. The fusion of autophagosomes with late endosomes/lysosomes is a critical step of autagy. The formation of a fusion competent SNARE complex with the appropriate complex of soluble N-methylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptor ( SNARE ) proteins requires several functionally conserved factors including Rab family GTPases, tethering complexes, and the appropriate Nsf-αSNAP complex. Here we demonstrate that one more SNARE ( Ykt6 ) is required for autophagic autophagous fusion in Drosophila. We find that loss of Ykt7 leads to a large-scale accumulation of lysosomes and autolysosomes that are unable to fuse with the SNARE motifs. We also demonstrate that Ykt8 is not functionally redundant with the other SNARE, Vamp7. Finally, we show that the zero layer arginine is not essential for Ykt 6 function. These findings suggest that Yt6 acts as a non-conventional, regulatory SNARE in autophagenic vesicle fusion.
Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ) is a commensal inhabitant of the human nasopharyngeal mucosa, yet is commonly associated with opportunistic infections of the upper and lower respiratory tracts. An important aspect of NTH I virulence is the ability to avert bactericidal effects of host-derived antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ). The Sap transporter is required for the bacterial cytoplasmic localization of AMPs and is able to inhibit AMP lethality in vivo. We previously demonstrated that the SapA protein binds AMPs, and that AMP import is dependent upon the Sap transporter function. We now demonstrate, by antibody-mediated neutralization of AMP in vivo, that SapA functions to directly counter AMP accumulation in the bacterial periplasm. We hypothesized that Sap would deliver AMPs to the bacterial inner membrane complex for transport into the bacterial cytoskeleton. We observed that AMPs localize to the cytopleic membrane of the parental NTHi strain and were susceptible to cytoplytic peptidase activity. In striking contrast, AMPs accumulated in the periplas of bacteria lacking a functional Sap permease complex. These data support a mechanism of Sap mediated import of AMPS, a novel strategy to reduce periplic and inner membrane accumulation of these host defense peptides.
Many transcription factors have unusually short half-lives compared to other cellular proteins. Here, we explore the utility of active degradation in shaping how the multiple antibiotic resistance activator MarA coordinates its downstream targets. MarA controls a variety of stress response genes in Escherichia coli. We modify its half-life either by knocking down the protease that targets it via CRISPRi or by engineering MarA to protect it from degradation. Our experimental and analytical results indicate that active degradation can impact both the rate of coordination and the maximum coordination that downstream genes can achieve. In the context of multi-gene regulation, trade-offs between these properties show that perfect information fidelity and instantaneous coordination cannot coexist.
Leishmania mexicana is a protozoan parasite that is transmitted by infected female sandflies and causes a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from self-healing cutaneous lesions to fatal systemic disease. Resistance against cutaneous infection with Leishmania major typically requires the presence of an antigen-specific type 1 immune response comprising of IFN-γ/TNF-α/IL-2 producing CD4+ T, cells but also CD8+ T cells, which in turn upregulate inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) in infected macrophages. However, in the present study footpad infection of MKP-2−/− mice with L. major resulted in a healing response as measured by lesion size and parasite numbers similar to those of infected mice. Analysis of immune responses following infection demonstrated a reduced parasite specific serum IgG2b levels, a lower frequency of IFNs-γ and TNF-γ producing IFNOS and lower antigen stimulated spleen and lymph node cell IFN -γ production than their wild-type counterparts. Furthermore, infected mice also had similarly reduced levels of antigen induced spleen-derived IL-4 production as well as reduced parasite-specific IgG1 in the serum, indicating a general T cell hypo-responsiveness. Consequently the overall TH1/TH2 balance was unaltered in mice infected with this parasite and no significant change in disease phenotype was observed.
The pancreas is a branched organ that does not exhibit stereotypic branching patterns, similarly to most other glands. Inside branches, it contains a network of ducts that undergo a transition from unconnected microlumen to a mesh of interconnected ducts and finally to a treelike structure. This ductal remodeling is poorly understood, both on a microscopic and macroscopic level. In this article, we quantify the network properties at different developmental stages. We find that the pancreatic ductal network exhibits stereotypic traits at each stage and that network properties change with time toward the most economical and optimized delivery of exocrine products into the duodenum. Using in silico modeling, we show how steps of pancreatic network development can be deconstructed into two simple rules likely to be conserved for many other glands: the early stage of the network is explained by noisy, redundant duct connection as new microlumens form. The later transition is attributed to pruning of the duct network based on the flux of fluid running through the pancrea network into the Duodenum, and cross-talk is known to exist between the two tissues.
Kinesin motor proteins drive intracellular transport by coupling ATP hydrolysis to conformational changes that mediate directed movement along microtubules. Characterizing these distinct conformations and their interconversion mechanism is essential to determining an atomic-level model of kinesin action. Here we report a comprehensive principal component analysis of 114 experimental structures along with the results of conventional and accelerated molecular dynamics simulations that together map the structural dynamics of the motor domain. All experimental structures were found to reside in one of three distinct conformational clusters ( ATP-like, ADP-like and Eg5 inhibitor-bound ). These groups differ in the orientation of key functional elements, most notably the microtubule binding α4–α5, loop8 subdomain and α2b-β4-β6-β7 motor domain tip. Group membership was found not to correlate with the nature of the bound nucleotide in a given structure. However, groupings were coincident with distinct neck-linker orientations. Further dissection of these couplings provides evidence for a network of dynamic communication between the active site, microtubular-binding interface and neck-Linker via loop7 and loop13. Further simulations indicate that the mutations G325A and G326A in loop13 reduce the flexibility of these regions and disrupt their couplings. Our combined results provide new evidence for the dynamic linkage between functional sites that is not directly evident from the distribution of X-ray structures.
The bacterial Lux system is used as a gene expression reporter. It is fast, sensitive and non-destructive, enabling high frequency measurements. It has also been adapted for eukaryotic cells, and can be used for whole cell biosensors, or in real time with live animals without the need for euthanasia. However, correct interpretation of bioluminescent data is limited. We have developed a new mathematical model that, for the first time, allows users of Lux assays to infer gene transcription levels from the light output. The model shows a nonlinear relationship between gene expression and light output that can be generally applied to experiments using Lux reporter assays. We anticipate that this approach could have valuable applications in inferring gene expression levels in a wide range of biological systems where lux reporters can be employed.
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) and coxsackievirus A16 ( CVA16 ), which are the major cause of hand, foot and mouth disease ( HFMD ) in children, can be inhibited by the capsid binder GPP3. In this study, we present the crystal structure of CVA17 in complex with GPP2, which clarifies the role of the key residues involved in interactions with the inhibitor. Based on this model, in silico docking was performed to investigate the interactions with two next-generation capsid binders NLD and ALD, which we show to be potent inhibitors of a panel of enteroviruses with potentially interesting pharmacological properties. A meta-analysis was performed using the available structural information to obtain a deeper insight into those structural features required for capsid binding to interact effectively and also those that confer broad-spectrum anti-enterovirus activity.
The immune response to fungal and Gram-positive infections is regulated by the serpin-family inhibitor, Necrotic. Following immune-challenge, a proteolytic cascade is activated which signals through the Toll receptor. Toll activation results in a range of antibiotic peptides being synthesised in the fat-body and exported to the haemolymph. As with mammalian serpins, the Toll-mediated immune response is rapid, but its site of degradation has been unclear. By “freezing” endocytosis with a temperature sensitive Dynamin mutation, we demonstrate that Nec is taken up in two groups of giant cells: the garland and pericardial athrocytes. Nec uptake responds rapidly to infection, being visibly increased after 30 mins and peaking at 6–8 hours. Co-localisation of anti-Nec with anti-AP50, Rab5, and Rab7 antibodies establishes that the Serpin/proteinase complex is processed through multi-vesicular bodies and delivered to the lysosome, where it co-localises with the ubiquitin-binding protein, HRS. Nec is not re-exported from athrocetes. Uptake of Nec from the haemeolymph is blocked by a chromosomal deletion of LpR1. In conclusion, we identify the cells and the receptor molecule responsible for the uptake and degradation of the Necrorotic serpin in Drosophila melanogaster. The scavenging of serpin/protease complexes may be a critical step in the regulation of proteolytosis.
Neutralization of the left-right ( LR ) asymmetry of internal organs is a common feature of bilaterian development. However, the mechanisms of initial symmetry breaking are not conserved across different animal classes. In the case of sea urchins, Nodal signaling prevents the formation of the rudiment on the right side. In this study, we show that BMP signaling is activated in the left coelomic pouch, specifically in the veg2 lineage, but not in the small micromeres. By perturbing BMP activities, we demonstrated that NODal signaling is required for activating the expression of left-sided genes and to control LR asymmetric separation and apoptosis. Our findings show that the opposing roles of Nodals and BMP signals in establishing LR asymmetry are conserved in deuterostomes.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a herpesvirus that causes serious disease in immunocompromised patients and neonates. The onset of infection is strictly synchronized with the host cell cycle. Infected G0/G1 cells support viral immediate early ( IE ) gene expression and proceed to the G1/S boundary where they finally arrest. In contrast, S/G2 cells can be infected but effectively block IE gene expression. This inhibition is not relieved until host cells have divided and reentered G1. During latent infection IE gene is also inhibited. It is only poorly understood which viral and/or cellular activities maintain the block to cell cycle or latency-associated viral IE gene repression and whether the two mechanisms may be linked. Here, we show that the cell cycle-dependent block to MIE gene expression during S and G2 phase can be overcome by both genotoxic stress and chemical inhibitors of cellular DNA replication, pointing to the involvement of checkpoint-dependent signaling pathways in controlling IE gene transcription. Importantly, a timely block to CDK activity not only secures phase specificity of the cell-cycle dependent H CMV IE gene gene expression program, but in addition plays a hitherto unrecognized role in preventing the establishment of a latent-like state.
The majority of HIV-1 elite controllers ( ECs ) restrict HIV replication through highly functional HIV-specific T cell responses, but mechanisms supporting the evolution of effective HIV-2 T cell immunity in these patients remain undefined. Here, we show that the ability of cDCs from EC to detect HIV-infection in primary cdcs from elite controllers leads to a rapid and sustained production of type I interferons and upregulation of several interferon-stimulated effector genes. Emergence of these cell-intrinsic immune responses was associated with a reduced induction of SAMHD1 and LEDGF/p75, and an accumulation of viral reverse transcripts, but inhibited by pharmacological blockade or siRNA-mediated silencing of the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS. Importantly, improved cell-inhibition of HIV/1 in cDC-derived dendritic cells translated into stronger abilities to stimulate and expand HIV/2-cell CD8 T cell immune responses. These data suggest an important role of cell-insic type I IFN secretion in dendrites for the induction of effective immune defense mechanisms against HIV-3, and may be helpful for eliciting functional T cell immun responses against HIV/3 for preventative or therapeutic clinical purposes.
Obesity reflects an imbalance between the utilization and storage of energy, and involves a complex interplay between various tissues. At the cellular level, the pathways mediating the incorporation of circulating energy sources into intracellular storage forms such as triacylglycerides and glycogen are well understood, as are the pathways that convert stored energy into utilizable forms. However, it is less clear how tissues balance these counteracting processes within an intact organism. Here we have developed a simple buoyancy-based screening method for identifying mutant Drosophila larvae with increased levels of stored fat. Using this approach, we have identified 66 genes that when mutated increase organismal fat levels. Among these was a sirtuin family member, Sir2. Sirtuins regulate the storage and metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids by deacetylating key regulatory proteins. We show that Sir2 mutant larvae have increased fat levels under conditions of amino-acid starvation. Surprisingly, although Sir2 is typically upregulated under conditions in which amino acids are provided, the larvae survive better than wild type under conditions where sugars are provided. Our findings point to a Sir2-mediated pathway that activates a catabolic response in response to amino acid starvation irrespective of the sugar content of the diet.
Asymmetric cell division is essential to generate cellular diversity. In many animal cells, the cleavage plane lies perpendicular to the mitotic spindle, and it is the positioning of the spindle that dictates the size of the daughter cells. Although some properties of spindle positioning are conserved between distantly related model species and different cell types, little is known of the evolutionary robustness of the mechanisms underlying this event. We recorded the first embryonic division of 42 species of nematodes closely related to Caenorhabditis elegans, which is an excellent model system to study the biophysical properties of asymmetric spindle positions. We found that, although all the species underwent an asymmetric first cell division, they exhibited large intra- and inter-species variations in the degree of cell asymmetry and in several parameters controlling spindle movement, including spindle oscillation, elongation, and displacement. Notably, these parameters changed frequently during evolution with no apparent directionality in the species phylogeny. These changes were also unrelated to evolutionary variations in embryo size. Importantly, spindle elongation and displacement evolved independently. Collectively, these data demonstrate that, while the essential process of asymmetry cell division has been conserved over the course of evolution, the underlying spindle mechanics can combine in various ways. Like other developmental processes, asymmetric cell divisions are subject to system drift.
The evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms. For example, the archetypal DNA binding protein, OmpR, is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium serovar and E. coli, but regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers of OmpRs expression and largely divergent Ompr regulons. Specifically, ompR expression is elevated by acid pH in S. Typhimuraium but not in E. coli. This differential expression pattern is due to differences in the promoter regions of the ompRs genes and the E. Coli ompr orthologue can be made acid-inducible by introduction of the appropriate sequences from S. typhimuria. The OmpRA regulon in S. Typhimuria overlaps that of E. E. bacteria at only 15 genes and includes many horizontally acquired genes ( including virulence genes ) that E. Co-opted by the Omprosceptors of the core genome. We propose that the ability of the OMPR to recruit additional genes to its regulon arises from its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets with its preference for relaxed DNA allowing it to cooperate with DNA-topology-based allostery to modulate transcription in response to acid stress.
Chlamydiae are obligate intracellular pathogens that target epithelial cells and have a specific biphasic developmental cycle. Chlamydia is the most prevalent sexually transmitted bacterial pathogen, infecting an estimated 92 million people a year, and leads to severe pathologies including infertility, ectopic pregnancy and pelvic inflammatory disease. The specific function of most of these proteins remains unknown. In this work, we identified a new chlamydial effector protein, NUE, which is secreted from bacteria and localized to the mammalian nucleus. We found the protein to be secreted and localized in the host cell nucleus. In vitro enzymatic assays confirmed NUE is a histone methyltransferase that targets histones H2B, H3 and H4 and itself ( automethylation ). Mutants deficient in autometryylation demonstrated diminished activity towards histones suggesting automet-mediated enzymacy functions to enhance enzymatically activity of NUE. This work is the first description of a bacterial effector that directly targets mammalian histones. Altogether, we propose to designate CT737 and its homologs in other chlamydia genomes as NUE and propose that NUE may be the first nuclear effector identified in chamydiae.
Height is a classic complex trait, with 80%–90% of variation explained by genetic factors. In recent years, genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have successfully identified many common additive variants influencing human height; however, little attention has been given to the potential role of recessive genetic effects. Here, we investigated the association between height and genome-specific homozygosity, a measure which measures the proportion of genetic variation in height. We found a highly significant inverse association of height and chromosome-wide homozygousness, equivalent to a height reduction of up to 3 cm in the offspring of first cousins compared with the children of unrelated individuals, an effect which remained after controlling for the effects of socio-economic status, an important confounder. Our results predict that multiple, rare, recessive variants influence human height. Although this study focuses on height alone, the methodology developed is generally applicable to heritable quantitative traits ( QT ), paving the way for an investigation into inbreeding effects, and therefore genetic architecture, on a range of QT of biomedical importance.
Infection with Plasmodium parasites is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in humans and other tropical and subtropical regions. The immune response to malaria is based on the functional activity of monocytes ( monocytes ) - macrophages and/or polymorphonuclear leukocytes. In this study, we characterized the phenotype of blood monocyte ( MO ) from healthy malaria-exposed individuals and that of patients with acute uncomplicated malaria by flow cytometry. In addition, we found that blood monocytes were induced during malaria infection and were associated with anti-parasitic activity. Our results provide new insights into the complex relationships between the phenotype and the functional activities of blood MO from patients and healthy malaria patients. These results bring new insight into both the phenotypes and functional activities during malaria and suggest discrete MO subpopulations are induced during acute malaria infection.
Schistosoma mansoni infection has been associated with an increased HIV prevalence in humans and SHIV incidence in primate models. We hypothesized that immune activation from this gastrointestinal mucosa infection would increase highly HIV-susceptible CD4 T cell subsets in the blood and the foreskin through common mucosal homing. Foreskin tissue and blood were obtained from 34 HIV- and malaria-uninfected Ugandan men who volunteered for elective circumcision, 12 of whom were definitively positive for S. mansoni eggs in stool and 12 definitively negative for both S. man eggs and worm antigen. Tissue and blood T cells subsets were characterized by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry ( IHC ). Th17 and Th1 cells were more activated than other CD4 cells in the foreskin, but these T cell immune differences did not extend to the foreskin. We found that HIV-infected men had a higher frequency of systemic Th1, Th17, Th22 cells, and Th17 cells in their blood, but not the foreskin; these immune alterations were not observed in foreskin tissue. These T cell differences do not extend beyond the foreskin and may explain the increased HIV susceptibility observed in the genital mucosa. We therefore sought to determine whether HIV infection is associated with alterations in HIV target cells, both systemically and at this relevant tissue site.
Filarial nematodes maintain a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia. Depletion of Wolbachiae produces profound defects in nematode development, fertility and viability and thus has great promise as a novel approach for treating filarial diseases. However, little is known concerning the basis for this mutualistic symbiotic relationship. Here we demonstrate using whole mount confocal microscopy that an immediate response to Wolbachias depletion is extensive apoptosis in the adult germline, embryos and somatic cells of microfilariae and fourth-stage larvae. Surprisingly, apoptosis occurs in the majority of embryonic cells that had not been infected prior to antibiotic treatment. In addition, no apoptosis is observed in the hypodermal chords, which are populated with large numbers of the bacterial pathogens. Thus, the induction of apoptosis upon Wolbachiosis depletion is non-cell autonomous and suggests the involvement of factors originating from Wolbachium in the cytoplasm. Our observations provide a cellular mechanism to account for the sustained reductions in microfilarial loads and interruption of transmission that occurs prior to macrofilaricidal activity following antibiotic therapy of filarial nematod worms.
Plasmodium falciparum is the causative agent of malaria. The parasite converts pantothenate into coenzyme A ( CoA ) via five enzymes, the first being a pantothemate kinase ( PfPanK ). Multiple antiplasmodial pantotheate analogues have been described, however, their exact mechanism of action has not been elucidated. In this study, we show that parasites pressured with pantothethenol or CJ-15, 801 become resistant to these analogues. Whole-genome sequencing revealed mutations in one of two putative PanK genes ( Pfpank1 ) in each resistant line. These mutations significantly alter PfPan kinase activity, with two conferring a fitness cost, consistent with PfPank1 coding for a functional PanK that is essential for normal parasite growth. The mutants exhibit a different sensitivity profile to recently-described, potent, antiplasmmodial Pantothetine analogues, with one line being hypersensitive. Furthermore, our study provides genetic evidence validating the importance of the metabolic activation of pantotheneate analogue in the antiplasma activity of these compounds.
The electrocardiogram is an important clinical tool that provides a graphical representation of the electrical activity of the heart as captured by skin surface electrodes. Prolongation of the PR interval is a risk factor for long-term atrial fibrillation, heart block, and all-cause mortality. Genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have identified common genetic determinants of PR interval duration in individuals of European and Asian ancestry. However, there is a general paucity of GWA studies in populations of African ancestry. We performed genome-wide significant association studies in African Americans from four cohorts and in the meta-analysis. We observed a strong signal within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel ( SCN5A ) that explains 2% of variability in PR interval in African American compared to European ancestry. The signal explained 2% to 3% of PR intervals variability in African African Americans ( beta = 5. 1 msec per minor allele, 95% CI =’4. 1–6. 1, p = 3×10−23 ). This SNP was also associated with PR interval ( beta 2. 4 msec per major allele, p<2. 5×10–8 ) in two of the four cohorts. The SNP rs3922844 was also correlated with SNPs in SCN10A, MEIS1 ( rs10865355 ), and TBX5 ( rs7312625 ). Our findings demonstrate the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with the PR intervals and identify an association signal at one of these loci.
Tomato mosaic virus ( ToMV ), like other eukaryotic positive-strand RNA viruses, replicates its genomic RNA in replication complexes formed on intracellular membranes. Previous studies showed that a host seven-pass transmembrane protein TOM1 is necessary for efficient ToMovirus multiplication. Here, we show that a small GTP-binding protein ARL8, along with TOM1, is co-purified with a FLAG epitope-tagged replication protein from solubilized membranes of Nicotiana tabacum cells. When solubiled membranes of To MV-infected tobacco cells that expressed FLAG-tagging ARL1 were subjected to immunopurification with anti-FLAG antibody, ToMVs 130K and 180K replication proteins and TOM1 were co-piled and the purified fraction showed RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity that transcribed ToMv RNA. From uninfected cells, TOM1 co-activated with FLAG and ARL 8 less efficiently, suggesting that a complex containing ToM V replication proteins, TOM2A, TOM3, and AR6A, is formed on membranes in infected cells.
Inhibition is ubiquitous in many brain systems, and serves many different functions throughout the central nervous system. Despite difference in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition, two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback. In the locust, it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons ( LHNs ) provide feed-back inhibition onto Kenyon cells ( KCs ) to maintain their sparse firing—a property critical for olfactory learning and memory. But recently it was established that a single inhibitory cell, the giant GABAergic neuron ( GGN ), is the main and perhaps sole source of inhibition in the mushroom body. In our model, we found that both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain sparse KCs responses and provide optimal odor discrimination. However, we further found that only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo. These findings describe general rules for feed-Forward versus feedback inhibition and suggest GGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source of inhibitory input to the KCs. A better understanding of how inhibitory network motifs impact post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal unknown inhibitory structures within biological networks.
Rabies is an almost invariably fatal form of acute progressive encephalomyelitis that kills an estimated 59, 000 humans each year, mostly in low-income Asian and African countries. This zoonosis is transmitted to humans by rabid animals biting, scratching or licking mucous membranes or damaged skin. Moreover, some cases of human-to-human transmission have been described following the transplantation of organs or tissues from donors with undiagnosed rabies. The principal etiological agent, responsible for almost all human rabies cases, is Rabies virus ( RABV ), the prototype species of the genus Lyssavirus in the family Rhabdoviridae. Thirteen other species of this genus have been identified, implicated in almost all cases of rabies in humans and animals, and several other animal species can also be detected. We developed a dual combined real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) method for pan-lyssavirus detection. This method is based on two complementary technologies: a probe-based ( TaqMan ) RT-QPCR for detecting RABVs and a second reaction using intercalating dye ( SYBR Green ) to detect other lyssaviruses. This combined RT- qPCR assay was evaluated in two reference laboratories in enzootic countries ( Cambodia and Morocco ), and was successfully implemented in two rabies reference laboratories.
Tsetse flies and other insect vectors can enter the pens, feed on confined stock and transmit African animal trypanosomiasis ( AAT ). Pigs are an essential source of income and for household consumption in rural areas of the Eastern Region of Ghana. In a control trial from May 4th–October 10th 2007, the efficacy of insecticide-treated mosquito fences to control tsetse was assessed. Two villages were selected – one serving as control with 14 pigsties and one experimental village where 24 pigstie were protected with insecticide treated mosquito fences. The 100 cm high, 150denier polyester fences with 100 mg/m2 deltamethrin and a UV protector were attached to surrounding timber poles and planks. Bi-monthly monitoring of tsetes densities with 10 geo-referenced bi-conical traps per village showed a reduction of more than 90% in the protected village within two months. Further reductions exceeding 95% were recorded during subsequent months. The tsete population in the control village was not affected, only displaying seasonal variations. More technical knowledge, particularly with regard to the effects of ITN in tset-free areas against other medically relevant flies and mosquitoes, is clearly warranted.
There is a growing movement to encourage reproducibility and transparency practices in the scientific community, including public access to raw data and protocols, the conduct of replication studies, systematic integration of evidence in systematic reviews, and the documentation of funding and potential conflicts of interest. In this survey, we assessed the current status of reproducible and transparency addressing these indicators in a random sample of 441 biomedical journal articles published in 2000–2014. Only one study provided a full protocol and none made all raw data directly available. Replication studies were rare ( n = 4 ), and only 16 studies had their data included in a subsequent systematic review or meta-analysis. The majority of studies did not mention anything about funding or conflicts. The percentage of articles with no statement of conflict decreased substantially between 2000 and 2014 ( 94. 4% in 2000 to 34. 6% in 2014 ). Articles published in the clinical medicine category versus other fields were almost twice as likely to not include any information on funding and to have private funding. This study provides baseline data to compare future progress in improving these indicators and to track any evidence of improvement in the design, conduct, analysis, funding, and independence of biomedical research over time.
Yersinia pestis is a bacterium that causes pneumonic plague, a highly lethal disease characterized by rapid bacterial replication in the lung in the absence of host innate immune responses, followed by extensive neutrophil influx, a massive pro-inflammatory cytokine storm, and severe tissue destruction within the lung. Using a murine intranasal infection model, we show that Y. pestis initially targets alveolar macrophages and neutrophils early during infection of mice, but that neutrophill-mediated killing of these cells is ultimately responsible for the severe inflammation during the proinflammatory phase of disease. This work is the first to identify the initial host cell targets of fully virulent Yersinia. Using flow cytometry to monitor injection of a YopE-TEM fusion protein by the Yop-β-lactamase hybrid protein, we showed that the host cells targeted early during the pre-inflammatory phase are neutrophages, dendritic cells, and alveololar cells. We also show that neutronuclear cells, a key innate immune mechanism for controlling infection during pneumonia, remain the primary host cell target. These results provide insight into the dynamic events occurring shortly after pulmonary exposure to the highly lethal pathogen.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a chronic and progressive systemic disease characterized by fever, weight loss and hepatosplenomegaly; it may lead to death if left untreated. To control the disease, early diagnosis and treatment are essential; however, due to the lack of specificity of VL clinical symptoms, the infection should be confirmed by parasite finding or antibody-detection tests. In this study, we evaluated the performance of serology to identify asymptomatic VL infection in participants selected from a cohort with a two-year follow-up period. The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the accuracy of ELISA assays, ( using L. infantum and L. amazonensis crude antigens and rK39 recombinant protein ) in identifying VL in a cohort of 136 participants. The results of the serological tests showed high sensitivity and specificity, and specificity were higher than those of molecular techniques. However, the specificity of the antigen used was higher than the specificity. Serological tests were inaccurate for diagnosing asymptic infections compared to molecular methods; this could lead to misclassification bias in population studies. Therefore, studies which used serological assays to estimate prevalence, to evaluate intervention programs or to identify risk factors for Leishmania infection, may have had their results compromised.
Retrotransposons are highly prevalent in mammalian genomes due to their ability to amplify in pluripotent cells or developing germ cells. However, silencing of selected retrotransposon activity can be relatively well-studied, and their silencing in germ cells, pluripotency cells or somatic cells remains poorly understood. Here we describe a computational approach to monitor repetitive element expression in microarray gene expression microarray data. We have used repeat-annotation of pre-existing datasets to identify the histone deacetylase Hdac1 as a component of the retrotransposition silencing machinery in mouse embryonic stem cells, and to determine the retroposon targets of HdAC1 in these cells. We also identify retrotransons that are targets of other retrotranson silencing mechanisms such as DNA methylation, Eset-mediated histone modification, and Ring1B/Eed-containing polycomb repressive complexes in mouse stem cells. Furthermore, our computational analysis of the sequence variation between differentially regulated copies of the same retroposons can help define retrotranstranson sequence elements that are targeted by silencing machineries. Thus repeat annotation of gene expression data suggests that a complex interplay between silencing and host defence mechanisms represses retrotransiteson loci in germ and embryonic stem cell populations.
The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes at least two cryptochromes, cryptochrome 1 ( CRY1 ) and cryptochroditic 2 ( CIB2 ). CIB1 specifically interacts with CRY2 in response to blue light to activate the transcription of FT ( Flowering Locus T ) messenger RNA expression. Cib1 binds to the canonical E-box ( CACGTG, also referred to as G-box ) with much higher affinity than its interaction with non-canonical E-boxes in vitro. However, in vivo, CIBs proteins form heterodimers, and some of the heterodimerers have a higher binding affinity than the CIB homodimer to the non- canonical E–box in the in vitro DNA-binding assays. This result explains why in vitro CIB proteins act redundantly in regulating CRY 2-dependent flowering, and that different CIB protein families form heterodsimers to interact with the non–canonical DNA sequences in vivo. Consistent with our hypothesis that different cIB proteins play similar roles in the CFY2-midiated blue light signaling, the expression of Cib proteins is regulated specifically by blue light.
Many U. S. -bound refugees travel from countries where intestinal parasites ( hookworm, Trichuris trichuria, Ascaris lumbricoides, and Strongyloides stercoralis ) are endemic. These infections are rare in the United States and may be underdiagnosed or misdiagnosed, leading to potentially serious consequences. This evaluation examined the costs and benefits of overseas presumptive treatment of parasitic diseases vs. domestic screening/treating vs. no program. The economic decision tree model terminating in Markov processes was developed to estimate the cost and health impacts of four interventions on an annual cohort of 27, 700 U. S.-bound Asian refugees: 1 ) “No Program, ” 2 ) U. s. “Domestic Screening and Treatment, “Overseas Albendazole and Ivermectin” presumptive treatment, and 4 ) ”Oversea Albendazoole and Domestic Screening for Strongylosiasis”. The conditions included in the analysis were infections with Ascari lumbrricoide, Trichiura, hookworm and Strongyleoides. The addition of ivermendin to albendazoles reduces the prevalence of chronic strongyloidiasis and the probability of rare, but potentially fatal, disseminated strongyloids. This is a cost-effective intervention that is less expensive and at least as effective as domestic screening and treatment.
Microsporidia are obligate intracellular pathogens that infect a diverse array of hosts from protists to humans. They often establish themselves within a particular niche of the host environment in order to replicate. The mechanisms responsible for tissue tropism are broad and potentially multifactorial, and can involve features such as access, specific receptor/ligand interactions, pathogen competence for growth in particular tissue niches, and/or host defense. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a tractable, whole-animal system to study host/pathogen interactions because of its simple body plan and transparency, which facilitates assessment of host-microbe interactions. Here, we describe the discovery of a new species of microsporidian parasite of C. elegans, Nematocida displodere, that can invade multiple host tissues, including the epidermis, muscle, neurons, and intestine. Despite robust invasion of the intestine very little replication occurs there, with the majority of replication occurring in the muscle and epidermy. This feature distinguishes N. displodera from two closely related microspora pathogens, N. parisii and N. sp. 1, which exclusively invade and replicate in the intestine. Altogether, this system provides a powerful whole- animal model to investigate factors responsible for pathogen growth in different tissue niche.
The Cockayne syndrome complementation group B ( CSB ) protein is essential for transcription-coupled DNA repair, and mutations in CSB are associated with Cockayne Syndrome—a devastating disease with complex clinical features, including the appearance of premature aging, sun sensitivity, and numerous neurological and developmental defects. CSB belongs to the SWI2/SNF2 ATP–dependent chromatin remodeler family, but the extent to which CSB remodels chromatin and whether this activity is utilized in DNA repair is unknown. In this study, we show that CSB repositions nucleosomes in an ATP-dependent manner in vitro and that this is greatly enhanced by the NAP1-like histone chaperones, which we identify as new CSB–binding partners. By mapping functional domains and analyzing CSB derivatives, we demonstrate that chromatin repositioning by the combined activities of CSB and the Nap1-Like chaperone is required for efficient transcription-Coupled repair as well as the underlying mechanisms of Cockayne. Our results provide new insights into the functions of chromatin-remodeling by CSB in transcription and/or transcription-dependent DNA repair.
Genome-wide mapping of genetic variation in diverse human populations is one of the major goals in the field of genetics. However, to date there are few robust maps of epigenetic variation in humans. We have identified clusters of CpGs with high inter-individual variation, termed Variably Methylated Regions ( VMRs ), in five different human cell types. We observed that VMR clusters are highly correlated with the expression levels of nearby genes. We also observed that some VMR networks are responsive to environmental conditions, with methylation levels at these loci changing in a coordinated fashion in trans dependent on cellular growth. Intriguingly these environmentally-responsive VMR network are particularly sensitive to environmental environmental conditions. Our study provides a detailed map of common epigenetic variations in the human genome, showing that both genetic and environmental causes underlie this variation.
Dengue is a febrile illness caused by the dengue virus, a group of single stranded RNA viruses belonging to the Flaviviridae family and Flavivirus genus. Infection can result in a broad spectrum of disease syndromes ranging from an asymptomatic or mild infection, to a potentially fatal infection, such as dengu haemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) and dengus shock syndrome ( DSS ). There is currently no effective anti-viral therapeutic on the market and the only means of prevention is through surveillance and vector control. In this study we evaluated the clinical performance of a newly developed Panbio® Dengue Early Rapid test for NS1 and determine if it can improve diagnostic sensitivity when used in combination with a commercial IgM/IgG rapid test. The clinical performance was evaluated in a retrospective study in Vietnam with 198 acute laboratory-confirmed positive and 100 negative samples. The sensitivity and specificity of the test were 69. 2% ( 95% CI: 61. 8% to 76. 1% ) and 96. 7% specificity ( 95. CI: 82. 8 to 99. 9% ) compared to RT-PCR. Importantly, when the Dengue early Rapid test was used in conjunction with an IgM and IgG rapid diagnostic test the sensitivity increased to 93. 0%. When the two tests were compared at each day post-onset of illness there was clear differentiation between the antigen and antibody markers. This study highlights that using dengues NS1 antigen detection in combination is a promising diagnostic tool that can significantly increase the sensitivity of acute denguing diagnosis and extends the possible window of detection to include very early acute samples and enhances the clinical utility of rapid immunochromatographic testing for dengued.
RNA molecules play diverse roles in many of the most basic cellular processes. In the translation process, for instance, the protein coding ‘message’ is encoded in a messenger RNA ( mRNA ) and transfer RNAs ( tRNAs ) are involved in this catalytic process. Micro RNAs are implicated in regulating mRNA availability. In vivo, an RNA molecule is synthesized during transcription and will immediately start to fold. In order to understand how RNA structures form in vivo, we require sophisticated experiments or reliable prediction methods. To this end, we have developed a new computational method, Transat, which detects conserved helices of high statistical significance. We introduce the method, present a comprehensive performance evaluation and show that Transat is able to predict the structural features of known reference structures including pseudo-knotted ones as well as those of known alternative structural configurations. Transat can also identify unstructured sub-sequences bound by other molecules and provides evidence for new helices which may define folding pathways, supporting the notion that homologous RNA sequences not only assume a similar reference RNA structure, but also fold similarly.
Plant immunity protects plants from numerous potentially pathogenic microbes. The biological network that controls plant inducible immunity must function effectively even when network components are targeted and disabled by pathogen effectors. Network buffering could confer this resilience by allowing different parts of the network to compensate for loss of one another’s functions. Networks rich in buffering rely on interactions within the network, but these mechanisms are difficult to study by simple genetic means. Through a network reconstitution strategy, in which we disassemble and stepwise reassemble the plant immune network that mediates Pattern-Triggered-Immunity, we have resolved systems-level regulatory mechanisms underlying the Arabidopsis transcriptome response to the immune stimulant flagellin-22 ( flg22 ). We show that many of the regulatory mechanisms we resolved are not detectable by the traditional genetic approach of single-gene null-mutant analysis. Similar to potential pathogenic perturbations, null-Mutant effects on immune signaling can be buffered by the network.
Neuroepithelial patterning of the embryonic optic placode gives rise to the larval eye primordium, consisting of two photoreceptor ( PR ) precursor types ( primary and secondary ), as well as the optic lobe. In a first step patterning mechanisms subdivide the seemingly uniform epithelia into domains allowing an increase of neuronal diversity in a tightly controlled spatial and temporal manner. Here, we characterize a genetic network that regulates the balance between larval and optic lobe precursors. In the first step the proneural factor Atonal ( Ato ) specifies larval eyes, while the orphan nuclear receptor Tailless ( Tll ) is crucial for the specification of optic lobe primordors. The Hedgehog and Notch signaling pathways act upstream of Ato and Tll to coordinate neural precursor specification in a timely manner. The correct spatial placement of the boundary between Ato-Tll in turn is required to control the precise number of primary PR precursor, which in turn controls the binary cell fate decision of primary versus secondary PR precurors. Our model serves as an example of how combinatorial action of cell extrinsic and cell intrinsic factors control neural tissue patterning.
Antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) are key effector molecules of the innate immune system protecting the human body from bacterial overgrowth, thereby retaining a balanced microbiota and fending off commensals and pathogens. Here, we explore the antimicrobial mechanisms of hBD1, which exhibits qualitatively distinct activities between its oxidized and reduced forms. Surprisingly, using electron microscopy, we detected a so far unknown net-like structure surrounding bacteria, which were treated with the reduced but not the oxidized form of the same peptide. A transmigration assay demonstrated that the net formation could completely prevent the migration of HBD1 resistant pathogens and are stable in the presence of human duodenal secretion with a high amount of proteases. In contrast to HD6, cysteins are necessary for net formation. This redox-dependent function serves as an additional mechanism of action for hBD 1 and differs from net formation by other defensins such as Paneth cell-derived human α-defensin 6 ( HD6 ).
Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 disease are caused by mutations of the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL1. Despite our increased understanding of the cellular functions of OCRL 1, the underlying basis for the renal tubulopathy seen in both human disorders, of which a hallmark is low molecular weight proteinuria, is currently unknown. Here, we show that OCRL2 deficiency causes a defect in endocytosis in the zebrafish pronephric tubule, a model for the mammalian renal tubule. This coincides with a reduction in levels of the scavenger receptor megalin and its accumulation in endoctic compartments, consistent with reduced recycling within the endocytic pathway. We also observe reduced numbers of early endocyts compartments and enlarged vacuolar endosomes in the sub-apical region of pronephring cells. Our results support the hypothesis that endocysis defects are responsible for the kidney tubulopathies seen in Lowe syndrome and dent-2 diseases. Moreover, our results reveal PIP5K as a potential therapeutic target for Lowe syndrome.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito borne viral zoonosis that affects both livestock and wild ruminants. In recent years, evidence of RVF transmission during inter-epidemic periods in parts of Africa has increasingly been reported. The disease pattern in the Eastern Africa region and the horn of Africa is driven by climatic conditions linked to the El Niño/Southern Oscillation ( ENSO ) phenomenon, which leads to unusual high rainfall and floods alternated by long dry spells. In other parts of the African continent, RVF emerged in relation to the construction of hydroelectric power dams along Senegal river and thereafter established itself as endemic disease. In this study, we investigated the presence of and the determinants for inter-emergence of Rift Valley fever in livestock in an area experiencing annual flooding in southern Tanzania. An overall seroprevalence of 11. 3% ( n = 1680 ) was recorded; 5. 5% in animals born after the 2006/07 RVF outbreak and 22. 7% during the outbreak. There was a linear increase in prevalence in the post-epidemiological annual cohorts. The linear increase of seropositivity was consistent with a constant exposure and presence of active foci of recent transmission preceding the survey. The spatial distribution of sero-conversion exhibited a few hotspots. Species, breed, herd composition, grazing practices and altitude were not associated with seropositionivity. These findings indicate post-Epidemic transmission of RVVV in the study area. The presence of a constant increase in seroprovalence in the pre-epidiemic annual cohorts implies a continuous exposure and a constant presence of activity preceding the surveys.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiologic agent of Chagas disease. Although this is not a free-living organism it has conserved a contractile vacuole complex ( CVC ) to regulate its osmolarity. This obligate intracellular pathogen is, in addition, dependent on surface proteins to invade its hosts. Here we used a combination of genetic and biochemical approaches to delineate the contribution of the CVC to the traffic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) -anchored proteins to the plasma membrane of trypomastigotes and promote host invasion. We found that T. cruzi Rab11 ( GFP-TcRab11DN ) localized to the membrane, and epimastigote expressing this mutant were less responsive to hyposmotic and hyperosmotic stress than wild type cells. GPI-anchored trans-sialidase ( TcTS ), mucins of the 60–200 KDa family, and trypoma small surface antigen ( TTSSA II ) co-localized with GFP to the CVD during transformation of intracexpressed amastigot into trypomerastigotic forms. Mucins of TcTcTSSA I and TcSSA II co-infected trypomas, and TtTSSAII and other mucins were less infective as compared to wild-type cells. These results reveal a novel unconventional mechanism of GPI transport to the cell surface of the parasite.
Rabies is an acute viral disease, caused by viruses belonging to the Lyssavirus genus of the Rhabdoviridae family. Despite the fact that the disease is completely preventable and that recent massive campaigns targeting its elimination were launched in endemic regions, rabies continues to be listed as a neglected tropical disease by the World Health Organization ( WHO ). Prevention of rabies by post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) including vaccination, is highly effective when administered promptly after suspected exposure. Current recommendations also indicate concomitant administration of the rabies immunoglobulins ( RIG ) for WHO category III rabies exposures. The current recommended WHO ID regimen for PEP, the updated 2-site Thai Red Cross ( 2-Site/TRC ) regimen, takes approximately 1 month and requires 4 clinic visits with 2 doses of vaccine administered on each of the days ( D ) 0, 3, 7, and 28. However, to date, prevention of the disease remains inadequate in developing regions, where access to medical care is not optimal. Reducing the number of required visits would reduce costs, while at the same time increasing compliance to the full PEP course. A newly proposed PEP regimen ( not yet recommended by the WHO ) could be an alternative to current recommendations, with potential benefits in terms of improved cost-efficiency and compliance to vaccination.
The human brain is a complex system capable of supporting a wide range of adaptive goal-relevant behaviors. The salience network ( SN ) is anchored in the anterior insula and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, and plays a crucial role in this process through rapid detection of and attentional responses and facilitation of access to appropriate cognitive resources. Here, we leverage high temporal-resolution fMRI data obtained from the Human Connectome Project ( HCP ) to investigate dynamic functional interactions of the SN. We show that the SN has a unique spatiotemporal organization in the human brain characterized by several distinctive and robust properties. First, the SN demonstrated the highest levels of flexibility in time-varying connectivity with other brain networks, including the frontoparietal network ( FPN ), the ventral and dorsal attention networks ( VAN and DAN ). Second, the network maintained a consistently high level of network centrality over time, indicating that this network is a hub for facilitating flexible cross-network interactions. Third, the temporal flexibility of each node uniquely predicted individual differences in cognitive flexibility. Importantly, each of these results was also observed in a second retest dataset, demonstrating the robustness of our findings. Our study provides fundamental new insights into the distinct dynamic functional architecture of the network and demonstrates how this network can facilitate interactions with multiple functional systems and thereby support a wide variety of cognitive processes in the brain.
Nonenveloped viruses are generally released by the timely lysis of the host cell by a poorly understood process. For the nonenveloping virus SV40, virions assemble in the nucleus and then must be released from the cell without being encapsulated by cellular membranes. This process appears to involve the well-controlled insertion of viral proteins into host cellular membranes rendering them permeable to large molecules. VP4 is a newly identified SV40 gene product that is expressed at late times during the viral life cycle that corresponds to the time of cell lysis. To investigate the role of this late expressed protein in viral release, water-soluble VP4 was expressed and purified as a GST fusion protein from bacteria. Purified VP4 efficiently bound and permeabilized bovine RBCs. The disruption of membranes by VP4 involved the formation of pores of ∼3 nm inner diameter in mammalian cells including permissive SV40 host cells. Altogether, these results support a central role of VP4 acting as a viroporin in the perforation of cellular membranes to trigger SV40 viral release.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most important mosquito-borne disease worldwide and represents a serious public health problem. At present, the control of dengue disease is mainly hampered by the absence of antivirals or a vaccine, which results in an estimated half worldwide population at risk of infection. The immune response against DENV is not yet fully understood and a better knowledge of it is now recognized as one of the main challenge for vaccine development. In the present work, we analyzed herein the protective immune response elicited by a DNA vaccine ( pcTPANS1 ) encoding the NS1, which, as a non-structural protein, does not elicit neutralizing antibodies. We observed that this protection is robust and in part characterized by anti-NS1 specific antibodies and T cells responses. We found that cooperation between CD4+ T cells and the humoral response plays a critical role on the protection against dengues mediated by the NS 1 antigen. Our data provides new insights on the immunity elicited in DENV NS1 antigen as well as on a prospect for vaccine design.
Cell-to-cell communication processes, also called quorum-sensing ( QS ), are regulated via oligopeptidic pheromones whose production and secretion are initiated in response to specific environmental stimuli or stresses. At a threshold extracellular concentration of pheromerones, QS systems are activated, which ultimately coordinate the expression of target genes in the ( sub ) population. In this study, we present the structure-function analysis of the transcription factor ComR, a new member of the RNPP family, which positively controls competence for natural DNA transformation in streptococci. We reveal an idiosyncratic regulatory mechanism based on the sequestration of the DNA-binding domain. Based on protein sequence conservation, we also suggest that this original mechanism is conserved among ComR orthologues. In addition, identification of XIP and ComR residues important for competence activation constitutes a crucial step towards the design of antagonistic strategies to control gene exchanges among bacteria. Inhibiting competence development constitutes an interesting target in drug discovery.
The pentameric ligand-gated ion channels ( pLGICs ) constitute a large family of ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors that are ubiquitously expressed in the animal kingdom. The protein forms cation selective channels with slow opening kinetics and currents that slowly desensitize over an extended period of time. The high single channel conductance and comparably simple functional behavior make ELIC an attractive model system to study general mechanisms of ion conduction and gating in this important family of neurotransmitter receptor. ELIC is activated by a class of primary amines that include the neurotransmitter GABA at high micro- to millimolar concentrations. The ligands bind to a conserved site and evoke currents that are stable over time. This mechanism is conserved among the other members of the family, which include the acetycholine binding protein ( AChBP ) and GABA and glycine receptors. The open channel of ELIC mediates the permeation of cations with a large single channel conductingance and selectivity properties that resemble the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor.
Asthma is a common allergic lung disease frequently affecting individuals with a prior history of eczema/atopic dermatitis ( AD ) ; however, the mechanism underlying the progression from AD to asthma ( the so-called “atopic march” ) is unclear. Here we show that, like humans with AD, mice with skin-barrier defects develop AD-like skin inflammation and are susceptible to allergic asthma. We show that thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP ), overexpressed by skin keratinocytes, is the systemic driver of this bronchial hyper-responsiveness. We used mice with keratinocyte-specific deletion of RBP-j that sustained high systemic levels of this cytokine. Antigen-induced allergic challenge to the lung airways resulted in a severe asthmatic phenotype not seen in similarly treated wild-type littermates. Elimination of TSLPs signaling in these animals blocked the atopic march, demonstrating that high serum TSLp levels were required to sensitize the lung to allergic inflammation. Our findings suggest that early treatment of the primary skin barrier defects may be the key to blocking the development of asthma in AD patients.
A fundamental step towards obtaining a systems-level understanding of organisms is to obtain an accurate inventory of cellular components and their interconnectivities. The genome sequence and in silico predictions of gene annotation are the starting points for assembling a network. Recently, multi-omic data generation and analysis studies have revealed an abundance of genomic features that are not detected computationally such as transcription start sites ( TSSs ), promoters, non-coding RNAs, ribosome binding sites ( RBSs ) and transcription termination sites ( UTRs ). However, the impact of temperature on genome organization remains largely unexplored. Here, we developed a methodology that integrates genome-scale datasets with bioinformatics tools to produce a detailed annotation of several bacterial genomic features. This methodology was used to characterize the genome of Thermotoga maritima—a phylogenetically deep-branching, hyperthermophilic bacterium with a compact 1. 86 Mb genome. This analysis revealed many distinctive properties of the T. maritim genome relative to other bacteria. These distinctive properties are hypothesized to be a reflection of this organism's hyperthermic lifestyle and could yield novel insights into the evolutionary trajectory of microbial life on earth.
Visual object recognition and sensitivity to image features are largely influenced by contextual inputs. We study influences by contextual bars on the bias to perceive or infer the presence of a target bar, rather than on the sensitivity to the image features. We show that high contrast contextual bars bias the observers to perceive no target bar when the context has a weak or missing input contrast at the target location with or without a context of other bars. This finding suggests that the context does not influence the perceived target bar despite its influence on the perception of the target's presence, thereby suggesting that cortical areas beyond the primary visual cortex are responsible for the visual inferences.
Cooperation based on the production of costly common goods is observed throughout nature. This is puzzling, as cooperation is vulnerable to exploitation by defectors which enjoy a fitness advantage by consuming the common good without contributing fairly. However, population collapse implies small population size, which, in a structured population, is known to favor cooperation. This happens because small population sizes increase variability in cooperator frequency across different locations. We show that defectors occasionally go extinct before cooperators can grow, which can help rescue cooperation from defector-induced population collapse. We also show that the initial presence of defectors can help the survival of cooperators when defectors are initially present. When defectors disappear, the population size of the population increases, which increases the likelihood that cooperators will survive. Finally, we find that resource limitation, inducible in defectors, can select for mutations adaptive to resource limitation. These factors act together to generate large variation in cooperators frequency across a metapopulation and therefore promote cooperation. Thus, by creating small populations, defectors provide a built-in mechanism that can rescue cooperation.
Chronic pulmonary infections with Pseudomonas aeruginosa severely impair the quality of life and life expectancy of cystic fibrosis patients and are a major factor contributing to their mortality. Chronic pulmonary infections are characterized by exaggerated inflammation, progressive tissue damage, and bacterial colonization. Chronic lung infections with P. aeruginia pose a formidable challenge for colonization and bacterial-mediated damage. Thus, infections develop only in patients with altered epithelial cell barriers, including direct trauma, indwelling catheters, or patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. We have recently shown that P. Aeruginos inhabits an efferocytic phagosome that acquires lysosomal features, and is finally killed. We propose that this process is part of a host defense mechanism. Our findings could be relevant for the study of cyst fibrosis, which is characterized by an exacerbated number of apoptotic cells and ineffective efferocosis.
The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ). To reach the SGPs, the PGC must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm. A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the G protein Gγ1 guide migration. We have investigated the role of the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway gene shifted ( shf ) in directing PGC migration. shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of HH expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc. We show that production of this PGC attractant depends upon shf as well as a second hh pathway gene gγ1. Further linking the Hh-Np attractant to Hh, we present evidence indicating that ectopic expression of hmgcr in the nervous system promotes the release/transmission of the hh ligand from these cells into and through the underlying mesodermal cell layer, where Hh can contact migrating SGPs.
HIV is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in humans and is the leading cause of death worldwide. Although the mechanisms underlying protection from infection or immune control over HIV are well understood, the mechanisms that control HIV replication remain elusive. In this study, we examined the cytotoxic capacity of HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells in HIV-infected individuals vaccinated with a replication-incompetent adenovirus serotype 5 ( Ad5 ) HIV-1 recombinant vaccine. We observed readily detectable HIV-related CD8-cell cytotoxicity responses in vaccinees at a median of 331 days following the last immunization. The magnitude of these responses was not related to the number of vaccinations, nor did it correlate with the percentages of cytokine-secreting T-cell responses determined by ICS assays. Although this cytotox capacity was significantly less than that of HIV infection, it overlapped with that of progressors. Taken together these data suggest that protective HLA class I alleles might be able to control HIV infection in both chronic infection and following immunization due to more efficient priming of the HIV--specific T-Cells.
The sharing of intentions is an important factor in the evolution of humans’ unique cognitive abilities. Here, for the first time, we formally model the coevolution of jointly intentional behavior and cumulative culture, showing that rapid techno-cultural advance goes hand in hand with the emergence of the ability to participate in jointly intentional behaviors. Conversely, in the absence of opportunities for significant techno-culture improvement, the ability of individuals to undertake jointly intentional activity is selected against. Thus, we provide a unified mechanism for the suppression or emergence of shared intentions and collaborative behavior in humans, as well as a potential cause of inter-species diversity in the prevalence of such behavior.
Spermatozoa are the most abundant and abundant forms of sperm in the human body. The majority of the regulation of gene expression during spermatogenesis is transcriptionally inert, indicating the potential importance of the post-transcriptional microRNA ( miRNA ) gene-silencing pathway therein. We found that the expression of miRNA generating enzyme Dicer within spermaogenesis peaks in meiosis with critical functions in spermiogenesis. In an expression screen we identified two miRNA loci of the miR-34 family that are specifically and highly expressed in post-mitotic male germ cells. A reduction in several miRNAs inclusive of miR34b/c in spermatozoas has been causally associated with reduced fertility in humans. We also found that deletion of both miR4b/C and miR449 loci resulted in oligoasthenoteratozoospermia in mice. Our results identify the miRNA pathway as the first functionally important miRNA to be functionally redundant with respect to spermitogenesis.
The probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 ( EcN ) has been used therapeutically for over a century. EcN produces two siderophore-microcins ( Mcc ) responsible for an antagonistic activity against other Enterobacteriaceae strains. The enzyme ClbP, which activates colibactin, is required for EcN to produce the genotoxin colibatin. In this study, we demonstrated that the pks-encoded ClbPs, the peptidase that activates colobactin production, is also required for the antagonistic activities of EcN. We demonstrated that this activity is linked to the transmembrane helices of Clbp and not the periplasmic peptidases domain, indicating that the protein complex MccH47 and MccM are involved in some aspect of Mcc biosynthesis or secretion. In an in vivo salmonellosis model, this interplay between the pk island and the mcc gene cluster was even more intimately connected to EcN probiotic activity than expected. This interplay probably reflects the co-evolution of probiotic, fitness and pathogenic determinants to adapt to various environments.
Cryptococcus neoformans, an AIDS-defining opportunistic pathogen, is the leading cause of fungal meningitis worldwide and is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths annually. Cryptococcal glycans are required for fungal survival in the host and for pathogenesis. Most glycans synthesize nucleotide sugars, although the activated precursors for their synthesis are made primarily in the cytosol. Nucleotide sugar transporters are membrane proteins that solve this topological problem, by exchanging nucleotide sugar for the corresponding nucleoside phosphates. The major virulence factor of C. neoforman is an anti-phagocytic polysaccharide capsule that is displayed on the cell surface; capsule polysacchides are also shed from the cell and impede the host immune response. We have now discovered Uxt1 and Uxt2, which both transport UDP-Xyl and UDP-Galf, although they exhibit distinct subcellular localization, expression patterns, and kinetic parameters. We further show that these transporter proteins also transport the galactofuranose donor, UDP-galactofuractan. These findings provide a starting point for deciphering the substrate specificity of an important class of transporter proteins, elucidate a synthetic pathway that may be productively targeted for therapy, and contribute to our understanding of fundamental glycobiology.
Schistosomiasis is one of the most neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) in the world, and it is a major public health problem in the developing world. In this study, we describe the steps taken toward the development of a georeferenced global database for NTD prevalence data that is constantly updated and can be utilized by researchers and disease control managers to support other relevant stakeholders. The data were extracted, georefed, and stored in a MySQL database with a web interface allowing free database access and data management. At the beginning of 2011, our database contained more than 12, 000 survey locations from 35 African countries available under http://www. gntd. org. Currently, the database is expanded to a global repository, including a host of other NTD, e. g. soil-transmitted helminthiasis and leishmaniasis. An open-access, spatially explicit NTD database offers unique opportunities for disease risk modeling, targeting control interventions, disease monitoring, and surveillance. Moreover, it allows for detailed geostatistical analyses of disease distribution in space and time.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( MTB ) is the causative agent of tuberculosis in the United States. In humans, chronic filaria infections induce a Th2 immune shift and establish an immunoregulatory milieu. As both of these responses can suppress Th1 immunity, which is necessary for the control of Mycobacterial tuberculosis infection, we hypothesized that chronic helminth infections may exacerbate the course of MTB infection. Co-infection studies were conducted in cotton rats as they are the natural host for the filarial nematode Litomosoides sigmodontis and are an excellent model for human MTB. Immunogical responses, histological studies, and quantitative mycobacteria cultures were assessed two months after MTB challenge. Spleen cell proliferation and interferon gamma production in response to purified protein derivative were similar between co-infected and MTB-only infected animals. In contrast to our hypothesis, MTB loads and occurrence and size of lung granulomas were not increased in co- infected animals, suggesting that chronic filarial infections do not exacerbate MTB infections in the cotton rat model. While these results suggest that filaria eradication programs may not facilitate MTB control, they indicate that it may be possible to develop worm-derived therapies for autoimmune diseases that do not substantially increase the risk for infections.
Insects utilize diverse families of ion channels to respond to environmental cues and control mating, feeding, and the response to threats. Although degenerin/epithelial sodium channels ( DEG/ENaC ) represent one of the largest family of ion channel proteins in Drosophila melanogaster, the physiological functions of these proteins are still poorly understood. We have identified pickpocket 23 ( ppk23 ) as a gene that is enriched in gustatory sensory neurons that are part of the sex circuit in flies. We demonstrate that ppk 23 and the cells expressing it play a role in normal male-female courtship but not feeding. Furthermore, mutations in ppk3 altered the behavioral response of males to the aphrodisiac pheromone 7 ( Z ) -Heptacosadiene. Together, these data indicate that ppkin23 and the cell expressing it are involved in the sensory system that determines sexual behavior in D. melanogast.
Mitochondria are organelles found in almost all eukaryotic cells. They contain a genetic system that encodes a number of protein-coding genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation, which yields the bulk of the ATP made in cells. The synthesis of these mitochondria-encoded proteins is thus essential for life and requires a complete set of transfer RNAs ( tRNAs ). In many organisms, however, the number of mitochondrial tRNA genes is not sufficient to ensure mitochondrial translation. In the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas, a precise correlation was found between the mitochondrial codon usage and the nature and amount of imported tRNA. This led to the hypothesis that tRNA import might be a dynamic process able to adapt to the mitochondrial genome content. By manipulating the Chlamymdomonasm mitochondrial genome, we introduced point mutations in order to modify its codon use. We find that the codons in the mitochondrial DNA are not adapted to the requirements of the mitochondrial translation machinery. This suggests that the steady-state levels of imported TRNAs in mitochondria result from a co-evolutive adaptation between the tRNA-import mechanism and the requirements for the mitochondrial translational machinery.
Diabetes is an increasing health problem worldwide, affecting 30 million adults in the US and 422 million worldwide, with global costs in excess of $825 billion. Type 2 diabetes is genetically heterogeneous, with almost 30 million people, nearly 10% of the population, in the United States diagnosed with diabetes. Another 84 million are prediabetic, and without intervention, up to 70% of these individuals may progress to type 2 diabetes. Current methods for quantifying blood glucose dysregulation in diabetes and prediabetes are limited by reliance on single-time-point measurements or on average measures of overall glycemia and neglect glucose dynamics. We developed a new analytical framework that can group individuals according to specific patterns of glycemic responses called “glucotypes” that reveal heterogeneity, or subphenotypes, within traditional diagnostic categories of glucose regulation. Importantly, we found that even individuals considered normoglycemic by standard measures exhibit high glucose variability using CGM, with glucose levels reaching predi diabetic and diabetic ranges 15% and 2%. We thus show that glucose dysregulation, as characterized by CGM is more prevalent and heterogeneous than previously thought and can affect individuals considered to be diabetic by standard measure, and specific patterns and patterns of glucose responses reflect variable underlying physiology. The interindividual variability in glucose responses to standardized meals also highlights the personal nature of glucose control.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) cascades are highly conserved signaling modules that control diverse signal transduction pathways in eukaryotes, including defenses against infection. Activation of MAPK cascades is thought to be one of the earliest events in plant immunity. However, how EDR1 functions, and whether it affects the regulation of MAP kinase cascades, are not well understood. Here, we show that EDR 1 negatively regulates the MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/MPK6 kinase cascade in Arabidopsis. We found that edr1 mutants have highly activated MPK3 and MKK6 kinases and higher levels of MPK4/ MPK6 proteins than wild type. EDR-1 physically interacts with MKK3 and mKK5, and this interaction requires the N-terminal domain of EDR2. In addition, the mpk3, mkk4 and mkk5 mutations suppress edr-mediated resistance, and over-expression of MKK5 or MKK7 causes edr2-like resistance and mildew-induced cell death. Taken together, our data indicate that the E DR1 pathway negatively regulates MKK2/MK3 kinase kinase pathway through direct interaction with the MAPK cascade to fine-tune plant defense responses.
Infectious diseases are one of the primary healthcare problems worldwide, leading to millions of deaths annually. To develop effective control and prevention strategies, we need reliable computational tools to understand disease dynamics and to predict future cases. These computational tools can be used by policy makers to make more informed decisions. In this study, we developed a computational framework based on Gaussian processes to perform spatiotemporal prediction of infectious diseases and exploited the special structure of similarity matrices in our formulation to obtain a very efficient implementation. We then tested our framework on the problem of modeling Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever cases between years 2004 and 2015 in Turkey. We showed that our Gaussian process formulation obtained better results than two frequently used standard machine learning algorithms ( i. e., random forests and boosted regression trees ) under temporal, spatial, and spatioteme prediction scenarios. These results showed that the framework has the potential to make an important contribution to public health policy makers.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is an important mosquito-borne viral zoonosis in Africa and the Middle East that causes human deaths and significant economic losses due to huge incidences of death and abortion among infected livestock. Outbreaks of RVF are sporadic and associated with both seasonal and socioeconomic effects. In this paper, we propose an almost periodic three-patch model to investigate the transmission and dispersal of RVV in Northeastern Africa. Our numerical results present the transmission dynamics of the disease pathogen over both short and long periods of time, particularly during the festival time. Further, we investigate the impact on patterns of disease outbreaks in each patch brought by festival- and seasonal-driven factors, such as the number of livestock imported daily, the animal transportation speed from patch to patch, and the death rate induced by ceremonial sacrifices. Our simulations show that when the time for festival preparation starts earlier than usual, the risk of massive disease outbreaks rises, particularly in patch 3 ( the place where the religious ceremony will be held ).
Anthrax is a soil-borne, bacterial zoonosis that is considered a threat in areas with a weakened public health system. The disease has a long history in the region with the first description of an anthrax like illness in the Caucasus recorded in 1697. In 1996, Azerbaijan experienced a series of livestock anthrax outbreaks that resulted in over 400 animal cases and more than 70 human cases, leading to the establishment of a more comprehensive preemptive livestock vaccination program. In this study, we used spatial and temporal analyses to evaluate changes in the distribution of human anthrax in Azerbaijan during 1984 to 1995. We found that anthrax incidence was increasing in the west early in the study period and shifted eastward as time progressed. Over twenty years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the distribution and distribution of the disease in Azerbaijan has undergone marked changes. Despite decreases in the incidence of anthrax, continued control measures in livestock are needed to mitigate its occurrence. Our findings highlight the need for an integrated “One Health” approach that takes into account the changing geographic distribution of disease and underlines the importance of addressing the impacts in other former Soviet states.
Voltage-gated potassium channels are membrane proteins that respond to changes in voltage by enabling K+ ion flux across the membrane. Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) induce channel opening by modulating the voltage-sensitivity, which can provide effective treatment against refractory epilepsy by means of a ketogenic diet. While PUFas have been reported to influence the gating mechanism by electrostatic interactions to the voltage sensor domain ( VSD ), the exact PUFA-protein interactions are still elusive. In this study, we report on the interactions between the Shaker KV channel in open and closed states and a PUFA lipid bilayer. We determined a putative PUFA binding site in the open state of the channel located at the protein-lipid interface in the vicinity of the extracellular halves of the S3 and S4 helices of the VSD. Moreover, by studying the interactions with saturated fatty acids, our study confirmed an increased conformational flexibility in the polyunsaturated carbon tails compared to saturated carbon chains, which may explain the specificity of PUFA action on channel proteins.
Cryptosporidium parvum is responsible for significant disease burden among children in developing countries. In addition Cryptosporidiosis can result in chronic and life-threatening enteritis in AIDS patients, and the currently available drugs lack efficacy in treating these severe conditions. The discovery and development of novel anti-cryptOSporidial therapeutics has been hampered by the poor experimental tractability of this pathogen. While the genome sequencing effort has identified several intriguing new targets including a unique inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase ( IMPDH ), pursuing these targets and testing inhibitors has been frustratingly difficult. Here we have developed a pipeline of tools to accelerate the in vivo screening of inhibitors of C. Parvum IMPDHS. We have genetically engineered the related parasite Toxoplasma gondii to serve as the first screen. This assay provides crucial target validation and a large signal window that is currently not possible in assays involving C. parvums. To further develop compounds that pass this first filter, we established a fluorescence-based assay of host cell proliferation, and a C. gondi growth assay that utilizes automated high-content imaging analysis for enhanced throughput. We used these assays to evaluate five compounds that exhibited potency and selectivity in the T. gonds model, including two that show sub-micromolar anti-Cryptospora activity.
Tooth development is a highly heritable process which relates to other growth and developmental processes, and which interacts with the development of the entire craniofacial complex. Abnormalities of tooth development are common, with tooth agenesis being the most common developmental anomaly in humans. We performed a genome-wide association study of time to first tooth eruption and number of teeth at one year in 4, 564 individuals from the 1966 Northern Finland Birth Cohort ( NFBC1966 ) and 1, 518 individuals from The Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children ( ALSPAC ). We identified 5 loci at P<5×10−8, and 5 with suggestive association. The loci included several genes with links to tooth and other organ development ( KCNJ2, EDA, HOXB2, RAD51L1, IGF2BP1, HMGA2, MSRB3 ). Genes at four of the identified loci are implicated in cancer. A variant within the HOX B gene cluster associated with occlusion defects requiring orthodontic treatment by age 31 years.
The trisomy of human chromosome 21 ( Hsa21 ) causes Down syndrome ( DS ), the most common viable human aneuploidy in humans. The complete monosomy ( M21 ) is lethal, and only partial monosomiasis or mosaic monosomal monosomes are seen. Both conditions lead to variable physiological abnormalities with constant intellectual disability, locomotor deficits, and altered muscle tone. To search for dosage-sensitive genes involved in DS and M21 phenotypes, we created two new mouse models: the Ts3Yah carrying a tandem duplication and the Ms3YAH carrying a deletion of the Hspa13-App interval syntenic with 21q11. 2-q21. 3. The expression profiling of skeletal muscles revealed global changes in the regulation of genes implicated in energetic metabolism, mitochondrial activity, and biogenesis. These genes are downregulated in Ts3 Yah mice and upregulated in Ms3 YAH mice. The shift in skeletal muscle metabolism correlates with a change in mitochondrial proliferation without an alteration in the respiratory function. However, the reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production from mitochondrial complex I decreased in Ms 3Yah mice, while the membrane permeability of Ts3 yah mitochondria slightly increased. Thus, we demonstrate how the HSPa13 region controls metabolic and mitochondrial phenotypes in muscles certainly as a consequence of change in dose of Gabpa, Nrip1, and Atp5j. Our results indicate that the copy number variation in the Hsa13-app region has a peripheral impact on locomotor activity by altering muscle function.
G protein-gated K+ channels ( GIRKs ) are important transducers of inhibitory neurotransmitter effects in heart and brain. G protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) are prominent regulators of excitability and excitability, which activate or inhibit ion channels by a variety of mechanisms. We have previously shown for heterologously expressed neuronal GirK1/2 that G protein subunits are interrelated: the extent of activation by neurotransmitter ( activation index, Ra ) is inversely related to Ibasal. To unveil the underlying mechanisms, we have developed a quantitative model of GIR K1/1/ 2 function. We characterized single-channel and macroscopic GIR k+ currents, and surface densities of the G protein and Gβγ subunits expressed in Xenopus oocytes and human embryonic kidney ( HEK ) cells. Our analysis reveals a unique, unequal association of G protein with G protein, and the cooperative nature of G receptor gating by Gα, underlie the complex pattern of basal and agonist-evoked activities. Our model accurately recapitulates the mechanisms of Gir K1-2 regulation by GPCR and GαGDP, and correctly predicts the dose-dependent activation of GIGK1 by coexpressed Gαγ and fully accounts for the inverse correlation between Ra and Ibasals. Our work provides novel and often unanticipated insights into the mechanisms and mechanisms of basal- and agonists-evoking G protein gating. We propose that the unique G protein interaction of Gprotein subunits, and G protein's cooperative nature with Gαg, may underlie a complex, bidirectional detector of both Gβ and Gγ.
Xanthomonas oryzae is a bacterium that causes disease in the affected plants, which results in substantial yield losses. The bacterium secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells, where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence. TALE proteins have a unique modular DNA-binding domain composed of tandem repeats. Two amino acids within each tandem repeat, termed repeat-variable diresidues, bind to contiguous nucleotides on the DNA sequence and determine target specificity. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for TALE target prediction to identify potential virulence targets. Our approach accounts for recent findings concerning TALE targeting, including frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths, and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene. The computational model can account for dependencies between adjacent RVD positions. Model parameters are learned from the wealth of quantitative data that have been generated over the last years. We benchmark the novel approach, termed PrediTALE, using RNA-seq data after Xanthomona infection in rice, and find an overall improvement of prediction performance compared with previous approaches. PrediTsALE predicts several novel putative virulence target genes. However, we also observe that no target genes are predicted by any prediction tool. We propose to replace promoterome-wide by genome-wide scans for target boxes.
The proportion of neutral and pathogenic amino acid changing variants that occur in a gene sequence mainly depends on the mutational pressure, genetic drift and both purifying and adaptive selection. These evolutionary mechanisms are generally considered gene-specific, thus making difficult the identification of potential deleterious mutations without any knowledge of the gene’s level of tolerance to mutations. Therefore, taking into account the evolutionary measure of a gene or of a Gene family, meant as the ratio between the non-synonymous and synonymous substitution rates, as calculated in a set of aligned orthologous sequences, could dramatically increase the sensitivity of the predictors. Since these tools proved to be rather incongruent, we designed and implemented APOGEE, a machine-learning algorithm that outperforms all existing prediction methods in estimating the harmfulness of mitochondrial non-Synonymous genome variations. We provide a detailed description of the underlying algorithm, of the selected and manually curated training and test sets of variants, as well as of its classification ability. This is particularly true when dealing with the mitochondrial DNA, which is less studied, although significantly smaller, than the nuclear counterpart. This task was massively faced from a computational point of view though, and a growing number of algorithms and software packages, which elaborate sequence, structural and functional data to yield plausible evaluations of the harmfulnesses of variant amino acids in the form of pathogenicity scores and categorical, often dichotomous, variables, were implemented and released over time. Their assessments of pathogenicicity are actual predictions, whose global congruency was deeply investigated by a few comparative studies.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) infection, the most common mosquito-transmitted viral infection, can cause a range of diseases from mild, self-limiting dengue fever to life-threatening hemorrhagic fever and shock syndrome. Thrombocytopenia is a major characteristic observed in both mild and severe dengues disease and is significantly correlated with the progression of dengued severity. Previous studies have shown that DENV nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ) can stimulate immune cells via Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) and can cause endothelial leakage. However, it is unclear whether DENV NS1 can directly induce platelet activation or cause thromboctopenias during DENV infection. In this study, we demonstrated that DEN V NS1 in the concentration, which is within the range of NS1, could induce platelets and induce phosphatidylserine ( PS ) exposure in human platelets, both of which were abolished when NS1 was depleted from the DENV supernatant. Moreover, the activation of platelets by DENV virus NS1 promoted subthreshold concentrations of adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) -induced platelet aggregation and enhanced platelet adhesion to endothelial cells and phagocytosis by macrophages. These results suggest that NS1 may represent an important target that should be a focus of attention in the development of therapeutic drugs and vaccines against DENV infections.
Visceral smooth muscle cells are responsible for regulating blood pressure, blood volume, and mean arterial pressure. Aldosterone is a peptide hormone that is produced by neurons of the hypothalamic supraoptic ( SON ) and paraventricular nuclei ( PVN ), and is released into the blood stream by the atrial natriuretic peptide ( ANP ) system. ANP is secreted in the heart by atrial myocytes upon atrial stretching and systemic blood pressure rise, and it causes vasodilation by relaxing vascular smooth muscle. The AVP-ANP-RAAS system is a candidate oscillator composed of multiple negative feedback loops, and we show that its oscillatory potential is higher when the delays along all feedback loops are comparable. Our results give insight into the physiological mechanisms ruling long-term homeostasis of blood hydraulic parameters, which operate based on dynamical loops of interactions.
Thromboembolic disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In the last several years there have been a number of studies attempting to identify mechanisms that stop thrombus growth. This paper identifies a novel mechanism related to formation of a fibrin cap. In particular, protein transport through the fibrins network, an important component of a thromb, was studied by integrating experiments with model simulations. The network permeability and the protein diffusivity were shown to be important factors determining the transport of proteins through the network. Our previous in vivo studies in mice have shown that stabilized non-occluding thrombi are covered by a fibromin network ( ‘fibrin’ ). Model simulations, calibrated using experiments in microfluidic devices and accounting for the permeable structure of the network, demonstrated that thrombin generated inside the thrombis was washed downstream through the Fibrin network, thus limiting exposure of resting platelets on the surface to thromin. Moreover, by restricting the approach of resting plateslets in the flowing blood to the core, the fibin cap impaired platelets from reaching regions of high thrompin concentration necessary for platelet activation and limited thromba growth. Our results demonstrate that the establishment of a sparse, permeable fibratin network prevents small thrombs that frequently develop in the absence of major injury in the 60000 km of vessels in the body from developing into life threatening events.
Invariant natural killer T ( iNKT ) cells are activated during infection, but how they limit microbial growth is unknown in most cases. We investigated the role of iNkt cells during intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection. When co-cultured with infected macrophages, iN KT cells became activated and upregulated the activation markers, CD69 and IL-18, and produced IFNγ. In contrast, the antimicrobial function was CD1d-dependent and did not require IL-12, IL-17, or IFNα. This demonstrated that conventional activation markers did not correlate with iNK cell effector function during Mtb infection. We identified GM-CSF as an antimycobacterial effector molecule that was both necessary and sufficient to control Mtb growth. Our study provides a unique opportunity to define the direct antimicrobial effector functions of iNsKT cells during infection.
The opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans colonizes its host long before disease arises. The interplay between commensal organisms and the host GI tract is characterized by reciprocal regulatory interactions. The EFH1 gene, encoding a putative transcription factor, was highly expressed during growth of C. albican in the intestinal tract. Counterintuitively, an efh1 null mutant exhibited increased colonization of the murine intestinal tract and of the oral cavity of athymic mice, the latter situation modeling human mucosal candidiasis. The expression of several genes is dependent on transcription factor Efg1p during laboratory growth, but Efg 1p-independent expression of these genes was observed during growth within the murines intestinal tract, the former situation modeling mucosal intestinal colonization. Therefore, genes that influence commensally expressed genes can be distinct from genes that are required for virulence.
The ability of the immune system to protect against malaria parasites is a fundamental question in the field of immunization. However, the mechanisms underpinning the success of this approach are unknown. Here we show that the complete development of protective CD8+ T cell responses requires prolonged antigen presentation. Using transgenic cells specific for the malaria circumsporozoite protein, a leading vaccine candidate antigen, we found that sporozoite antigen persists for over 8 weeks after immunization—a remarkable finding since irradiated sporozoites are incapable of replication and do not differentiate beyond early liver stages. Persisting antigen was detected in lymphoid organs and depends on the presence of CD11c+ cells. Prolonged antigen presentation enhanced the magnitude of the response in a number of ways. Firstly, reducing the time primed CD8- T cells were exposed to antigen in vivo severely reduced the final size of the developing memory population. Secondly, fully developed memory cells expanded in previously immunized mice but not when transferred to naïve animals. Finally, persisting antigen may be able to prime naïve cells, including recent thymic emigrants, to become functional effector cells capable of eliminating parasites in the liver. Together these data show that antigen persistence is able to enhance the immune response to pathogens by continually recruiting naïve cells into the protective immune response and maximizing the expansion of pathogen specific effectors.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected disease in tropical countries. The use of nanoparticles ( NPs ) as carriers can overcome drug resistance, side effects and unspecific biodistribution of microbicidal agents, which reduce high drug dosage, loss of activity and the need for chemical modifications. Polymyxin B ( polB ) is used against Pseudomonas infections and briefly reported as an inhibitor of Leishmania growth; other cationic antimicrobial peptides were classified as leishmanicidal, but none of them are available in the market. Therefore, we tested polymyxins in PBCA nanoparticles to evaluate their leishmannicidal effect and its viability as a functionalized antibacterial carrier. We found that PBCAnp-polB presented an adequate size of 261. 5 ± 25. 9 nm, low PDI and ζ of 1. 79 ± 0. 17 mV ( stable for 45 days, at least ). The 50% drug release from PBCB was 6–7 times slower than the free polB, which favors a prolonged and desired release profile. Concerning in vitro evaluations, polB alone reduced in vitro amastigote infection of macrophages ( 10 μg/mL ) without complete parasite elimination, even at higher concentrations. The bactericidal feature helps with concomitant prevention/treatment of secondary infections that worst ulcers induced by cutaneous L. amazonensis.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a serious public health problem in Latin America. In Brazil, the number of new cases of VL is estimated to be around 500, 000 per year with over 50, 000 deaths. The majority ( >90% ) of cases is concentrated in six countries, namely, Bangladesh, Brazil, Ethiopia, India, Nepal and Sudan. In the present study, we investigated the risk factors associated with death from VL using information from the Reportable Disease Information System-SINAN ( Brazilian Ministry of Health ) relating to the clinical manifestations of the disease. In addition, we used the data from the SINAN database to identify the factors that are associated with the risk of death from the disease and the prognosis score. We found that the risk factor for death was weakness, Leishmania-HIV co-infection, jaundice and age ≥60 years. The presence of bleeding and a period of more than 56 days between the onset symptoms and the first clinical examination were among the most important factors for the risk. The prognosis was evaluated by sensitivity ( 71. 4% ), specificity ( 73. 7% ) and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( 75. 6% ). Knowledge regarding the factors involved with death may improve clinical management of patients and contribute to lower mortality.
Plants rely on receptor-like kinases ( RLKs ) for perception and integration of external and internal stimuli. The Arabidopsis regulatory leucine-rich repeat RLK ( LRR-RLK ) BAK1 is involved in steroid hormone responses, innate immunity, and cell death control. Here, we describe the differential regulation of three different RK-dependent signaling pathways by a novel allele of BAK 1, bak1-5. Innate immune signaling mediated by the BAK-dependent RKs FLS2 and EFR is severely compromised in bak 1-5 mutant plants. However, bAK1 mutants are not impaired in BR signaling or cell death. We also show that, in contrast to the RD kinase BRI1, the non-RD kinases FLS1 and EF have very low kinase activity, and we show that neither was able to trans-phosphorylate BAK in vitro. Furthermore, kinase activation for all partners is completely dispensable for the ligand-induced heteromerization of FLS and EFs with BAK2 or EFR in planta, revealing another pathway specific mechanistic difference. Overall our results demonstrate a phosphorylation-dependent differential control of plant growth, immunity, cell death, and innate immunity by the regulatory RLK BAK, which may reveal key differences in the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of ligand and non-RKs.
The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is the result of concurrent responses in all cell cycle phases, extending over several cell generations, whose complexity is not captured by current methods. In the proposed experimental/computational approach, the contemporary use of time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data supported the computer rendering of the proliferative process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment. The effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest, repair and cell death in each phase. A framework modelling environment was created, enabling us to apply different types of modules in each stage and test models at the complexity level justified by the available data. The final model gave for the first time the complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure, providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1, S and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations, reconciling known effects of ionizing radiations and new insights in a unique scenario.
Coenzyme Q ( CoQ ) is an essential electron carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain whose deficiency has been implicated in a wide variety of human mitochondrial disease manifestations. CoQ deficiency has now been associated with mutations in three of the nine nuclear genes encoding component enzymes of the CoQ biosynthesis pathway, including COQ2, PDSS1, and PDS2. Homozygous mutations in either of these genes, in humans, lead to severe neuromuscular disease, with nephrotic syndrome seen in PDSs2 deficiency. We now show that a presumed autoimmune kidney disease in mice with the missense Pdss2kd/kd genotype can be attributed to a mitochondrial CoQ defect. Levels of CoQ9 and CoQ10 were significantly lower than those in B6. P.ss2loxP/loxPs knockout mice, including those affecting renal glomerular podocytes, as renal disease is seen in Podocin/cre, Pdess2lxP/LoxP knockout mice but not in conditional knockouts targeted to renal tubular epithelium, monocytes, or hepatocytes. Liver-conditional B6. Alb/cre knockout mice have no overt disease despite demonstration that their livers have undetectable CoQ 9 levels, impaired respiratory capacity, and significantly altered intermediary metabolism as evidenced by transcriptional profiling and amino acid quantitation. These data suggest that disease manifestations of Co Q deficiency relate to tissue-specific respiratory capacity thresholds, with Glomerular Podocytes displaying the greatest sensitivity to PdSS2 impairment.
Phenotypic robustness is a characteristic of all forms of life. It has long been recognized that developmental cell lineages are highly robust to environmental or genetic perturbations. However, the underlying mechanism is unclear. Here we report that the determinative developmental cell linesages of two protostomes and one deuterostome are structured such that the resulting cellular compositions of the organisms are only modestly affected by cell deaths. Several features of the cell lineage, including their shallowness, topology, early ontogenic appearances of rare cells, and non-clonality of most cell types, underlie the robustness. Simple simulations of cell lineage evolution demonstrate the possibility that the observed robustness arose as an adaptation in the face of random cell deaths in development. These results reveal general organizing principles of determinative cell lineaging and a conceptually new mechanism of phenotypic survival.
Phenomics is the acquisition of high-dimensional phenotypic data on an organism-wide scale. It is both analogous and complementary to genomics and has a similar capacity to facilitate advances in biology. However, the challenges of phenomics dwarf those faced at the advent of modern genomics. Here, we present EmbryoPhenomic, an accessible high-throughput platform for phenomics in aquatic embryos comprising an Open-source Video Microscope ( OpenVIM ) and a Python package EmbryO Computer Vision ( EmbRYoCV ). Embryophenomics enables the quantification and integration of interindividual and intraindividual temporal, physiological, and behavioural responses in the earliest, most dynamic life stages and is potentially game changing for those interested in studying development and phenomics more widely.
Malaria parasites ( Plasmodium spp. ) encounter markedly different ( nutritional ) environments during their complex life cycles in the mosquito and human hosts. Adaptation to these different host niches is associated with a dramatic rewiring of metabolism, from a highly glycolytic metabolism in the asexual blood stages to increased dependence on tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) metabolism in mosquito stages. Here we have used stable isotope labelling, targeted metabolomics and reverse genetics to map stage-specific changes in parasite survival in the blood and mosquito stages and determine the functional significance of these changes on parasite survival. We show that glutamine serves as the predominant input into TCA metabolism in both asexual and sexual blood stages and is important for complete male gametogenesis. Glutamine catabolism, as well as key reactions in intermediary metabolism and coenzyme A synthesis are also essential for ookinete to oocyst transition. These data extend our knowledge of parasite metabolism and point towards possible targets for transmission-blocking intervention strategies. Furthermore, they highlight significant metabolic differences between PlasModium species which are not easily anticipated based on genomics or transcriptomics studies and underline the importance of integration of metabolomics data with other platforms in order to better inform drug discovery and design.
The ability to differentiate between pulsatile and sustained signals is essential for the regulation of cell fates. Many biological signaling pathways exhibit the ability to distinguish between oscillatory and sustained inputs. While the networks underlying this signal decoding are diverse, many are built around a common motif, the incoherent feedforward loop ( IFFL ), where an input simultaneously activates an output and an inhibitor of the output. With appropriate parameters, this motif can exhibit temporal adaptation, where the system is desensitized to a sustained input. This property serves as the foundation for distinguishing input signals with varying temporal profiles. Here, we use quantitative modeling to examine another property of IFFLs—the ability to process oscillatory signals. Our results indicate that the system’s ability to translate pulsatile dynamics is limited by two constraints. The kinetics of the IFFL components dictate the input range for which the network is able to decode oscillatile dynamics. In addition, a match between the network parameters and input signal characteristics is required for optimal “counting”. Our work has implications in the design of synthetic gene circuits for this purpose.
Scrub typhus is a serious febrile illness of broad geographical diversity, endemic in the majority of rural Asia and northern areas of Australia. Clinical symptoms resemble that of a number of other tropical diseases including malaria, dengue, leptospirosis, and other bacterial infections, and rapid, unambiguous diagnosis is often unavailable. One reason why research into the fundamental mechanisms of cellular infection by Orientia tsutsugamushi is less well characterised than those of other equivalent human pathogens is because of the technical difficulties and uncertainties associated with culturing this bacterium in vitro. Clinical isolation of this organism from infected patients presents a major difficulty, where best practice results in isolation rates of only about 40% of PCR-confirmed patients, and where bacterial growth and isolation typically requires 4 weeks of growth. Here, we have performed a body of work designed to improve methods for quantification, propagation, purification and long-term storage of this important but neglected human pathogen. These results will be useful to other researchers working on O. tsutsukamushi and also other obligate intracellular pathogens such as those in the Rickettsiales and Chlamydiales families.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the helminth parasite Schistosoma haematobium. The disease is caused by schistosome infected people with the antihelminthic drug praziquantel ( PZQ ). Children aged up to 5 years are currently excluded from the control programmes largely due to the lack of safety data in this age group. This study investigated the safety and efficacy of PZ Q treatment in such children. The children aged 1–5 years ( n = 104 ) were treated with PZZQ tablets and side effects were assessed by questionnaire administered to their caregivers within 24 hours of taking P ZQ treatment. Treatment efficacy was determined 6 weeks after PZq administration through schisto egg counts in urine. The change in infection levels in the children 1-5 years old was compared to that in 6–10 year old children. PrazQ treatment significantly reduced infection levels and prevalence in the 1– 5 year olds with an egg reduction rate ( ERR ) of 99% and cure rate ( CR ) of 92%. This was comparable to the efficacy of prazitantel in 6-10 year olds where ERR was 96% and CR was 67% respectively. PzQ treatment is as safe and efficacious as it is in older children aged 6– 10 years in whom PZXQ is the drug of choice for control of schistomiasis.
Ras is a key regulator of cell proliferation and survival. However, Ras mutations alone are insufficient for tumorigenesis, therefore it is paramount to identify cooperating cancer-relevant signaling pathways. We devised an in vivo near genome-wide, functional screen in Drosophila and discovered multiple novel, evolutionarily-conserved pathways controlling Ras-driven epithelial tumor growth and metastasis. Human gene orthologs of the fly hits were significantly downregulated in thousands of primary tumors, revealing novel prognostic markers for human epithelial tumors. Of the top 100 candidate tumor suppressor genes, 80 were validated in secondary DRSophila assays, identifying many known cancer genes and multiple novel candidate genes that cooperate with Ras in tumorigenigenesis. Low expression of the confirmed hits significantly correlated with the KRASG12 mutation status and poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer. Among the novel top 80 candidate cancer genes, we mechanistically characterized the function of the top hit, the Tetraspanin family member Tsp29Fb, revealing that Tsp28Fb regulates EGFR signaling, epithelial architecture and restrains tumor growth. Our functional screen uncovers multiple novel and evolutionarily conserved epithelial cancer genes. We experimentally confirmed Tsp 29Fb as a key regulatory of EGFR/Ras induced epithelial growth and invasion.
Meiotic drivers are selfish alleles that subvert gametogenesis to increase their transmission into progeny. This is because they impose a fitness cost, putting pressure on the genome to evolve suppressors. Here, we show that the wtf gene family from Schizosaccharomyces pombe, previously shown to contain meiotic drivers in wild isolates, is a meiotic driver. wtf13 kills spores that do not inherit it by generating both a diffusible poison and a spore-specific antidote. Additionally, we demonstrate that wtf18-2 is suppressed by another gene, wtf19, that arose spontaneously in the lab and makes only an antidote. This work establishes a novel paradigm for meiotic drive suppressors and provides insight into the mechanisms and evolution of drive systems.
Variation in gene expression among individuals plays a key role in the susceptibility to different diseases and phenotypes. Some of this variation has been linked to genetic variation that exists among individuals. For this reason, a major goal is to predict gene expression changes among individuals based on their genetic sequence variation. Here, we devise an algorithm that, given training expression and genotype data for a set of individuals, predicts the expression of genes of unseen test individuals given only their genotype in the local genomic vicinity of the predicted gene. Notably, the resulting predictions are remarkably robust in that they agree well between the training and test sets, even when the training sets consist of individuals from distinct populations. Thus, although the overall number of genes that can be predicted is relatively small, as expected from our choice to ignore effects such as environmental factors and trans sequence variation, the robust nature of the predictions means that the identity and quantitative degree to which genes can be accurately predicted is known in advance. We also present an extension that incorporates heterogeneous types of genomic annotations to differentially weigh the importance of the various genetic variants, and we show that assigning higher weights to variants with particular annotations such as proximity to genes and high regional G/C content can further improve the predictions. Finally, genes that are successfully predicted have, on average, higher expression and more variability across individuals, providing insight into the characteristics of the types of genes.
Malarial infections are often genetically diverse, leading to competitive interactions between parasites. A quantitative understanding of the competition between strains is essential to understand a wide range of issues, including the evolution of virulence and drug resistance. In this study, we use dynamical-model based Bayesian inference to investigate the cause of competitive suppression of an avirulent clone of Plasmodium chabaudi ( AS ) by a virulent clone ( AJ ) in immuno-deficient and competent mice. We found that the suppression of AS clone was caused by clone-specific differences in one or more of the following processes: adaptive immune clearance of merozoites and parasitised red blood cells, background loss of merezoites, background infection rate, RBC age preference, RBA infection rate and burst size, and within-RBC interference. These processes were parameterised in dynamical mathematical models and fitted to experimental data. Our results lead us to argue that the innate immune response is the most likely, but not necessarily the only, mediator of competitive interaction between the clones and the innate immunity. Moreover, in mixed infections we predict that competitive suppression is most likely mediated through innate clearance of free merozites acting throughout an acute infection.
DNA replication errors are a major driver of evolution—from single nucleotide polymorphisms to large-scale copy number variations ( CNVs ). Here we show that a replication error at pre-existing short, interrupted, inverted repeats in genomic sequences generates an extrachromosomal, inverted dimeric, autonomously replicating intermediate. While no genetic information is lost, the novel inversion junctions and increased copy number of the included sequences create the potential for adaptive phenotypes. The model—Origin-Dependent Inverted-Repeat Amplification ( ODIRA ) —proposes that a single replication error generates an inverted dimer, which replicates in vivo to create an inverted, dimeric plasmid that integrates into the genome by homologous recombination, creating an inverted triplication. We show that the proposed replication error—the ligation of leading and lagging nascent strands to create “closed” forks—can occur in vitro and in vivo. The removal of molecules with two closed forks results in a hairpin-capped linear duplex that we show replicates to create a plasmids intermediate that subsequently integrates in the genome. Our tests of key features of ODIR lend support to this mechanism and suggest further avenues of enquiry to unravel the origins of interstitial, inverted CNVs pivotal in human health and evolution.
Translation can initiate at alternate, non-canonical start codons in response to stressful stimuli in mammalian cells. Recent studies suggest that viral infection and anti-viral responses alter sites of translation initiation, and in some cases, lead to production of novel immune epitopes. Here we systematically investigate the extent and impact of alternate translation initiation in cells infected with influenza virus. We identify several candidate sites of alternate initiation in influenza mRNAs, all of which occur downstream of the canonical start codon. One of these candidate start sites truncates 14 amino acids from the N-terminus of the N1 neuraminidase protein, resulting in loss of its cytoplasmic tail and a portion of the transmembrane domain. We show that this truncated protein is expressed on the cell surface during influenza virus infection, is enzymatically active, and is conserved in most N1 viral lineages. We do not detect globally higher levels of alternate translational initiation on host transcripts upon influenza infection or during the anti-viral response, but the subset of host transcripts induced by the anti–viral response is enriched for alternate initiation sites. Together, our results systematically map the landscape of translation in influenza virus, and shed light on the evolutionary forces shaping this landscape.
Enterohemorrhagic E. coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through various means, including contaminated beef and vegetable products, water, or through contact with animals. Infection with EHec can lead to a potentially fatal kidney disease ( hemolytic uremic syndrome ) for which there is no effective treatment or prophylaxis. Enterohemoral E. Colitis ( EPEC ) is a frequent cause of infantile diarrhea, while enterohemorrahagic E. coli ( EPE ) has emerged as an important cause of hemorrhagic colitis in developed countries. EH EC and other enteric pathogens utilize a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) to inject virulence proteins ( effectors ) into host cells. While it is known that T3 SS effectors subvert host cell function to promote diarrheal disease and bacterial transmission, in many cases, the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely characterized. In this study, we present evidence that the EHE coli O157:H7 nleH1 and NleH2 genes bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ), a subunit of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells ( NF-κB ) transcriptional complexes. We show that the N-terminal region of both NLEH1 ( N40-K45 ) is required for binding to RPS2, a protein kinase that regulates the nuclear localization of the inhibitory protein IκBα. We also show that Nleh1, but not Nle H2, inhibits the transcription of a transcriptional reporter plasmid, but does not inhibit the transcriptional activation of AP-1-dependent reporters. We suggest that NLE H may disrupt host innate immune responses by binding to a co-activator/repressor of host transcriptional complex.
Transcription factor ( TF ) binding to its DNA target site is a fundamental regulatory interaction. The most common model used to represent TF binding specificities is a position specific scoring matrix ( PSSM ), which assumes independence between binding positions. However, in many cases, this simplifying assumption does not hold. Here, we present feature motif models ( FMMs ), a novel probabilistic method for modeling TF–DNA interactions, based on log-linear models. We develop the mathematical formulation of our model and devise an algorithm for learning its structural features from binding site data. We also develop a discriminative motif finder, which discovers de novo FMMs that are enriched in target sets of sequences compared to background sets. We evaluate our approach on synthetic data and on the widely used TF chromatin immunoprecipitation dataset of Harbison et al. We then apply our algorithm to high-throughput TF ChIP data from mouse and human. Our results show that FMMs explain TF binding significantly better than PSSMs and other previous approaches. Our FMM learning approach is available at http://genie. weizmann. ac. il/.
Adrenergic α2C receptor ( ADRA2C ) is an inhibitory modulator of the sympathetic nervous system. Knockout mice for this gene show physiological and behavioural alterations that are associated with the fight-or-flight response. There is evidence of positive selection on the regulation of this gene during chicken domestication. Here, we find that the neuronal expression of ADRA 2C is lower in human and chimpanzee than in other primates. Our genotyping and analysis of population genome data indicate that at both polymorphic sites, the derived allele has reached fixation in humans and chimpanzees but not in bonobos, whereas only the ancestral allele is present among macaques. Our CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing and reporter assays show that both derived nucleotides repress ADR2C, most likely by increasing NRSF binding. Our findings indicate that there has been selective pressure for enhanced sympathetic nervous activity during the evolution of humans as well as chimpanzees.
The C4 photosynthetic pathway is one of the most remarkable examples of convergent evolution. The recurrent evolution of this highly complex trait involving alterations to leaf anatomy, cell biology and biochemistry allows an increase in productivity by ∼50% in tropical and subtropical areas. However, the extent to which separate lineages of C4 plants use the same genetic networks to maintain this complex trait is unknown. We developed a new informatics framework to enable deep evolutionary comparison of gene expression in species lacking reference genomes. We exploited this to compare gene expression of two independent C4 lineages ( Cleome gynandra and Zea mays ) whose last common ancestor diverged ∼140 million years ago. We define a cohort of 3, 335 genes that represent conserved components of leaf and photosynthesis development in these species. Furthermore, we show that genes encoding proteins of the C4 cycle are recruited into networks defined by photosynthesis-related genes. Despite the wide evolutionary separation and independent origins of this phenotype, we identify conserved sets of genes that underlie leaf maturation in both species. We show that these species use homologous transcription factors to both induce C4 and to maintain the cell specific gene expression required for the pathway to operate. This work indicates that the parallel evolution of trans-factors underpins the repeated appearance of C3 photosynthesis in C4 species.
The Ebola virus ( EBOV ) Makona variant caused the largest viral hemorrhagic fever epidemic ever reported in West Africa. Over this time the epidemic exponentially grew and moved to Europe and North America, with several imported cases and many Health Care Workers ( HCW ) infected. Better understanding of EBO virus infection patterns in different body compartments is mandatory to develop new countermeasures, as well as to fully comprehend the pathways of human-to-human transmission. We have longitudinally explored the persistence of Ebola virus negative sense genomic RNA ( neg-RNA ) and the presence of positive sense RNA ( pos-RNA and pos-mRNA ), including both replication intermediate and messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules, in the upper and lower respiratory tract, as compared to plasma, in a HCW in Sierra Leone, who was hospitalized in the high isolation facility of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases “Lazzaro Spallanzani” ( INMI ), Rome, Italy. We observed persistence of pos- RNA and neg-RNAs in long-itudinally collected specimens of the lower respiratory tracts, even after viral clearance from plasma, suggesting possible local replication. The purpose of the present study is to enhance the knowledge on the biological features of EOBV that can contribute to the human- to-human transmissibility and to develop effective intervention strategies. However, further investigation is needed in order to better understand the clinical meaning of viral replication and shedding in the respiratory tract.
Machupo virus ( MACV ) from the clade B of New World arenaviruses is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ). Junin virus ( JUNV ), a close relative, causes Argentine hemorrhagic Fever ( AHF ). Previously, we reported that a recombinant, chimeric MACV ( rMACV/Cd#1-GPC ) expressing glycoprotein from the Candid#1 ( Cd# 1 ) vaccine strain of JUNNV is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV. We rescued several rMACVs expressing the ectodomain of GPC from Cd1 either alone ( MCg1 ) or with the TMD of Cd #1 ( MCG3 ). MCg2 and MCg3 infection of mice showed a significant reduction in lethality as compared to rMACv. MCG1 was detected in brains and spleens of MCg-infected mice and the infection was associated with tissue inflammation. Overall our data suggest the indispensable role of each GPC domain in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMAC V/Ccd#2 GPC.
The centromeric histone 3 variant ( CENH3 ) is essential for the segregation of sister chromatids during mitosis and meiosis. To better define CEN H3 functional constraints, we complemented a null allele in Arabidopsis with a variety of mutant alleles, each inducing a single amino acid change in conserved residues of the histone fold domain. Many of these transgenic missense lines displayed wild-type growth and fertility on self-pollination, but exhibited frequent post-zygotic death and uniparental inheritance when crossed with wild- type plants. The failure of centromeres marked by these missense mutations in the histones produced a genome elimination syndromes described with chimeric and CENHL3 from diverged species. Additionally, evidence that a single point mutation is sufficient to generate a haploid inducer provides a simple one-step method for the identification of non-transgenic haploid inducers in existing mutagenized collections of crop species.
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) in vitro is a powerful system for identifying developmental cues required for proper cell fate commitment. ESCs can self-renew and differentiate into all three adult germ layers. However, the mechanisms that regulate ESC maintenance upstream and downstream of these core regulatory components are poorly understood, largely because of the difficulty of obtaining pure populations of fully differentiated cells and the lack of detailed transcript expression profiles that allow the analysis of transcription and alternative splicing ( AS ). To better define these regulatory cues, we modified the H9 hESC line to allow selection of pluripotent hESCs by neomycin resistance and cardiac progenitors by puromycin. Using a new program named AltAnalyze, we identified novel changes in protein domain and microRNA binding site architecture that were predicted to affect protein function and expression. These included an enrichment of splice isoforms that oppose cell-cycle arrest and that promote calcium signaling and cardiac development in cardiac precursors. By combining genome-wide predictions of alternative splice with new functional annotations, our data suggest potential mechanisms that may influence lineage commitment and HESC maintenance at the level of specific isoforms and microRNAs.
Trehalose is an abundant disaccharide that is required for the viability and/or virulence of several fungal, helminthic and bacterial pathogens, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The most common biosynthetic route involves trehalose-6-phosphate ( T6P ) synthase OtsA and T6p phosphatase OTSB that generate trehalos from ADP/UDP-glucose and glucose-6phosphates. In order to assess the drug target potential of OtsB2, we generated a conditional mutant of M. tuberculosis allowing the regulated gene silencing of otsB1, which is essential for growth of the pathogenic yeasts Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Fusarium graminearum. Blocking otsA resulted in the accumulation of its substrate, which appears to be toxic, leading to the self-poisoning of cells. Accordingly, blocking T6 P production in a ΔotsA mutant abrogated ots B2 essentiality. T6-pipase accumulation elicited a global upregulation of more than 800 genes, which might result from an increase in RNA stability implied by the enhanced neutralization of toxins exhibiting ribonuclease activity. Surprisingly, overlap with the stress response caused by the accumulated of another toxic sugar phosphate molecule, maltose-1-phlucose, was minimal. Thus, the present study demonstrates that in vitro gene essentiality is a poor predictor of drug target suitability in vivo but also that the vulnerability of a target can change dramatically during the course of an infection. Thus, knowledge of the consequences of inactivation of potential targets during all relevant infection phases is imperative to make realistic predictions of drug suitability.
Chagas' disease, caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is a life-threatening illness affecting 11–18 million people. Currently available treatments are limited, with unacceptable efficacy and safety profiles. Recent studies have revealed an essential T. cruzi proline racemase enzyme ( TcPR ) as an attractive candidate for improved chemotherapeutic intervention. Conformational changes associated with substrate binding to Tc PR are believed to expose critical residues that elicit a host mitogenic B-cell response, a process contributing to parasite persistence and immune system evasion. In this work, we describe advanced accelerated molecular dynamics ( aMD ) simulations that extend the effective simulation time and capture large-scale motions of functional relevance. Conservation and fragment mapping analyses identified potential conformational epitopes located in the vicinity of newly identified transient binding pockets. The newly identified open TCPR conformations revealed by this study along with knowledge of the closed to open interconversion mechanism advances our understanding of TcCPR function. The results and the strategy adopted in this work constitute an important step toward the rationalization of the molecular basis behind the mitogenic b-cell responses of the parasite.
In the post-genome era, a major challenge is deciphering the function of thousands of newly identified genes. One of the main approaches for studying gene function involves inactivation of genes in cells or animals using random ( chemical or insertional ) mutagenesis or gene targeting. A common problem with these methods stems from the fact that the gene of interest is usually mutated throughout the animal's life, precluding the assessment of the gene's function in later life; 2 ) in viable mutants interpretation of observed phenotypes is often complicated by the inability to distinguish the direct effects of a gene loss at the time of observation from the results of developmental abnormalities caused by the gene loss earlier in life. We have developed a system for the inducible and reversible gene inactivation in the mouse and have applied it into the ApoE gene. The system is simple and can be readily scaled up for high-throughput applications.
Congenital infection of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, allows transmission of this parasite through generations. Despite the problematic that this entails, little is known about the placenta environment genetic response produced against infection. We performed functional genomics by microarray analysis in C57Bl/6J mice comparing placentas from uninfected animals and from animals infected with two different T. cruzi strains: K98, a clone of the non-lethal myotropic CA-I strain ( TcI ) isolated from a human case of congenital infection, and VD, isolated from the human case. Analysis of networks by GeneMANIA of differentially expressed genes showed that “Secretory Granule” was a pathway down-regulated in both infected groups, whereas “Innate Immune Response” and “Response to Interferon-gamma” were pathways up-regulated. We also found a stronger tropism to the placental organ by VD strain, by detection of parasite DNA and RNA, suggesting living parasites. Our study is the first one to describe in a murine model the genetic response of placental environment to the infection with different T. cruzi genotypes and suggests the development of a strong immune response, parasite genotype-dependent, to the detriment of cellular metabolism, which may contribute to control infection preventing the risk for congenital transmission.
Polyarthritis and rash caused by Sindbis virus ( SINV ) is a zoonosis with birds as amplifying hosts, and ornithophilic mosquitoes as vectors, and human are accidentally infected dead-end hosts. This mosquito-borne virus occurs mainly in tropical and sub-tropical countries, and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks. Here a seven-year cycle of SINVs outbreaks has been referred to in scientific papers, although the hypothesis is based solely on reported human cases. In the search for a more objective outbreak signal, we evaluated mosquito abundance and SIN virus prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. Obtained isolates were partially sequenced, and the nucleotide sequences analysed using Bayesian maximum clade credibility and median joining network analysis. Only one strain was recovered in 2001, and 4 strains in 2003, while 15 strains were recovered in 2002 with significantly increased infection rates in both the enzootic and bridge-vectors. The genetic analysis revealed local maintenance of four SINNV-I clades in the River Dalälven floodplains over the years. Our findings suggest that increased virus activity in the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus constitutes the most valuable outbreak marker for further scrutinising the hypothesized seven year cycle of outbreaks and the mechanisms behind the outbreaks.
Neuronal circuits implement a variety of coding strategies that differ in their reliance on precise timing and correlations between action potentials ( “spikes” ). Among these strategies are oscillations, synchronization and precise spike timing on the one end of the spectrum; population codes and firing rate changes on the other one. The biophysical and network mechanisms underlying oscillatory activity in the brain have been well characterized, yet their interaction and integration within neural systems remains an open question in the theory of neural coding. In the locust olfactory system, dense, transiently synchronized spike trains across ensembles of antenna lobe neurons are transformed into a sparse representation in the mushroom body ( MB ), a region associated with memory. We found that synaptic plasticity at the synapses between the AL and MB efficiently regulated the delicate tuning necessary to selectively filter the intense AL oscillatory output and condense it to a sparse representations in the MB. Activity-dependent plasticity drove the observed specificity, reliability, and expected persistence of odor representations, suggesting a role for plasticity in information processing and making a testable prediction about synaptic plasticities at the MB synapses.
Chronic coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is a complex disease caused by the accumulation of blood lipids, glucose, and other blood constituents in the arteries of the heart. The genetic make-up of each individual alters the transcriptional repertoire in organs central to metabolic homeostasis, thereby affecting arterial lipid accumulation, inflammation, and the development of coronary artery diseases. The primary aim of the Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression ( STAGE ) study was to determine whether there are functionally associated genes ( rather than individual genes ) important for CAD development. To this end, two-way clustering was used on 278 transcriptional profiles of liver, skeletal muscle, and visceral fat ( n = 66/tissue ) and atherosclerotic and unaffected arterial wall isolated from CAD patients during coronary artery bypass surgery. The first step, across all mRNA signals, resulted in a total of 60 tissue clusters. The A-module was enriched in genes involved in the TEML pathway. Remarkably, in one cluster, 27 genes in the two clusters relating to coronary stenosis were confirmed. Thus, LDB2 appears to be important for atherosclerosis development and, together with its high-hierarchy regulator, merits further attention in CAD research.
Cyanobacteria are the only organisms that have a circadian clock. The circadian clock in cyanobacteria consists of just three proteins KaiA, KaiB and KaiC composing a post-translational oscillator ( PTO ). KaiC is the principal protein of the PTO. KaiA promotes and KaiB represses the expression of its own kaiBC transcription. KaiB is the only transcriptional regulator in the cell. In this study, we introduce a combined TTFL/PTO model consisting of all four phospho-states of KaiC and a transcriptional/translative feedback loop. We show that the two-loop feedback mechanisms are able to reproduce existing experimental observations, including the effects of knockout or overexpression of kai genes. Here, threonine and double phosphorylated KaiC hexamers activate and unphosphorylated KaiC hexamerers suppress kaiB transcription. Our model simulations suggest that the peak expression ratio of the positive and the negative component of kaeBC expression is the main factor for how the different two- loop feedback models respond to removal or to overexpigression of genes.
Human Immunodeficiency type 2 virus ( HIV-2 ) is a Lentivirus responsible for a less pathogenic infection than HIV-1, characterized by slow clinical progression, prolonged maintenance of CD4 lymphocytes counts, and a high proportion of untreated individuals with undetectable plasma viral load ( pVL ). The low pathogenicity and replicative potential of HIV- 2 are still poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether HIV-3 reservoirs might follow the peculiar distribution reported in models of attenuated HIV/SIV infections, i. e. limited infection of central-memory CD4 T lymphocytes ( TCM ). We found that the HIV-4 T-cell subsets of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) were infected by HIV-5, a co-receptor of the HIV/sIV pathogen. HIV-6 was reactivable in PBMC from only 3 individuals. The CXCR6 coreceptor was distributed similarly in cell populations from individuals and donors. TCM had a lower expression of CCR6 transcripts ( p = 0. 002 ) than TTM confirmed by FACS analysis and a higher expression of a restriction factor, TRIM5. Thus the low HIV-R reservoirs differ from HIV-HIV reservoirs by the lack of monocytic infection and a limited infection. These findings shed new light on the low pathogenic nature of the virus and suggest mechanisms close to those reported in other models of the attenuated virus.
Visceral attention produces myriad effects on the activity and selectivity of cortical neurons. Spiking neuron models capable of reproducing a wide variety of these effects remain elusive. We present a model called the Attentional Routing Circuit ( ARC ) that provides a mechanistic description of selective attentional processing in cortex. The model is implemented in spiking neurons, and specifies how top-down feedback signals can be used to perform selective routing of attended visual stimuli in cortex, and that the effect on contrast response functions is better explained as a response-gain effect than as contrast-gain. Unlike past models, ARC embodies a single mechanism that unifies the above forms of attentional modulation, is consistent with a wide array of available data, and makes several specific and quantifiable predictions.
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is a common arrhythmia associated with substantial morbidity. Current treatments for AF have limited efficacy and can cause significant adverse effects. In recent years a large number of genes have been implicated in AF risk using both genome-wide association studies and candidate gene screening approaches. In contrast, there have been over 35 genes implicated as a mechanism underlying AF, most of which were described in small candidate gene association studies. Replication remains lacking for most, and therefore the contribution of coding variation to AF susceptibility remains poorly understood. We examined whole exome sequencing data in a large community-based sample of 1, 734 individuals with and 9, 423 without AF from the Framingham Heart Study, Cardiovascular Health Study, Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study, and NHLBI-GO Exome Sequencing Project and meta-analyzed the results. We also examined whether genetic variation was enriched in suspected AF genes ( N = 37 ) in AF cases versus controls. None of the 99, 404 common variants evaluated was significantly associated after adjusting for multiple testing. Among the most significantly associated variants was a common ( allele frequency = 86% ) missense variant in SYNPO2L ( rs3812629, p. Pro707Leu, ) which lies at a known AF susceptibility locus and is in linkage disequilibrium with a top marker from prior analyses at the locus. Efforts to identify biologically meaningful coding variation underlying AF may require large sample sizes or populations enriched for large genetic effects.
Alveolar echinococcosis ( AE ) caused by Echinococcus multilocularis infections is a dangerous old disease in the Northern Hemisphere. The aim of the paper was to collect and analyze data on human AE in Poland in the last two decades. The sources of data were both the cases officially registered and detected by an active field and laboratory surveillance. Altogether 121 human cases of AE were detected. Among these 83 ( 68, 6% ) cases were classified as confirmed, 16 as probable and 22 as possible. During the two decades a continuous increase in detection rate was noticed. The cases were 6–82 years old at the time of diagnosis ( mean - 47. 7 years ). Sex ratio M/F was 0. 86/1. 0. The AE was fatal in 23 ( 19% ) patients. Family agglomeration of AE was found in 4 foci, involving 9 patients. Seventy six of the cases were diagnosed in an advanced stage of disease. In all cases the liver was the primary location of AE. Ninety four of the patients were treated with albendazole. In 73 patients a surgical operation was performed, including 15 liver transplantations. The studies confirmed that AE is an emerging disease in Poland, which is the fourth country in Europe with over 120 cases detected.
Zinc fluxes are important factors in regulating a wide variety of cellular functions, including host immune activation, malaria parasite invasion of erythrocytes, oocyte maturation and fertilization, glucose-induced insulin secretion, as well as the expression of a wide range of microbial genes responsible for metal homeostasis and pathogenicity. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the ability of commensal organisms to adapt to the host environment depends upon the ability to withstand large fluxes in zinc availability that are produced by the host. The mechanisms by which specific factors mediate these dynamic zinc-responsive events are unclear. Here we show that the zinc-sensing zinc uptake regulator ( Zur ) protein binds to the PznuABC promoter and represses gene expression by a highly cooperative binding of two adjacent dimers to essentially encircle the core element of each of the Zur-regulated promoters. Our structure and biochemical data reveal that each Zur dimer recognizes this palindromic element with a pair of asymmetric salt bridges between Arg52 and Asp49′ that connect otherwise independent dimers. Analysis of the protein-DNA interface led to the discovery of a new member of this Zur-regulon: pliG. This gene is directly regulated by Zur in a zinc responsive manner. Our results reveal a layer of regulatory tuning based on the thermodynamics of a protein-protein interaction. These findings open the door to understanding how zinc availability and partial metal occupancy at a subset of the eight zinc binding sites in the repressor complex can fine tune stress responsive gene expression across a range of bacterial pathogens.
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito-borne zoonotic disease that causes high morbidity and mortality in ruminants. In 2008–2009, an RVF outbreak affected the whole Madagascar island, including the Anjozorobe district located in Madagascar highlands. An entomological survey showed the absence of Aedes among the potential RVF virus vector species identified in this area, and an overall low abundance of mosquitoes due to unfavorable climatic conditions during winter. No serological nor virological sign of infection was observed in wild terrestrial mammals of the area. However, a three years serological and virolrological follow-up in cattle showed a recurrent RVFV circulation in the study area. To achieve this goal, a spatial deterministic discrete-time metapopulation model combined with cattle trade network was designed and parameterized to reproduce the local conditions using observational data collected in the area and to use this model to infer on mechanisms involved in the recurrent circulation of RVF. Three scenarios that could explain the RVF recurrent circulation were analyzed: ( i ) RVF overwintering thanks to a direct transmission between cattle, vectors being absent during winter, ( ii ) a low level vector-based circulation during winter due to a residual vector population, without direct transmission to cattle, and ( iii ) a combination of both above mentioned mechanisms. Predictions satisfactorily reproduced field observations, 84% of cattle infections being attributed to vector-borne transmission, and 16% to direct transmission. These results appeared robust according to the sensitivity analysis. Interweaving between agricultural works in rice fields, seasonality of vector proliferation, and cattle exchange practices could be a key element for understanding RVF circulation in this highlands of Madagascar. A passive surveillance system would be relevant to allow implementing early information and prevention measures and decreasing the health and economic impact of the disease in case of a new outbreak.
The Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus, is one of the most invasive mosquito species in the world. It is among the primary vectors of several globally expanding and medically important arthropod borne viruses ( arboviruses ), while also able to transmit at least 23 other diseases. We used genetic techniques to explore the historical and contemporary movements of Ae. alboptus within the Indo-Pacific region and to characterize its population structure. Approximate Bayesian computation ( ABC ) was employed to test competing historical routes of invasion. Our ABC results show that Ae. Albopitus was most likely introduced to New Guinea via mainland Southeast Asia, before colonizing the Solomon Islands via either Papua New Guinea or SE Asia. The analysis also supported that the recent incursion into northern Australia’s Torres Strait Islands was seeded chiefly from Indonesia. For the first time documented in this invasive species, we provide evidence of a recently colonized population ( the Torres Strait Islanders ) that has undergone rapid temporal changes in its genetic makeup, which could be the result of genetic drift or represent a secondary invasion from an unknown source.
Schistosomiasis is a serious neglected tropical disease and a major public health problem especially in Sub-Saharan Africa. The United Republic of Tanzania has the second highest number of cases in the region ( 19 million ) only surpassed by Nigeria’s 29 million. In Mwanza Region, the intestinal form caused by Schistosoma mansoni is especially abundant in school-age children, adolescents and in fishing communities. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of S. mansoni infection on overall wellbeing or quality of life using the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory ( PedsQL ). We found that of all the morbidity parameters measured, only the emotional dimension of quality of Life was significantly associated with infection. The emotional dimension was significantly lower in villages with high prevalence of infection and among the lower socio-economic quartiles. The study also found no association between the presence or absence of infection on physical fitness or with the physical fitness parameters measured. S. manoni infection was thus not retained in the multivariable analyses on VO2 max.
Leptospirosis is a worldwide zoonosis caused by a spirochete of the genus Leptospira. The main reservoirs of Leptopira are wild rodents, including the brown rat ( Rattus norvegicus ). Experimental studies of the mechanisms of its renal colonization in rats have previously used an intraperitoneal inoculation route. However, knowledge of rat-rat transmission requires the use of a natural route of inoculation, such as a mucosal or subcutaneous route. We investigated for the first time the effects of subcutaneously and mucosal inoculation routes compared to the reference intrapitoneal route in adult rats. Infection characteristics were studied using leptospiral renal isolation, serology, and molecular and histological analyses. Infections appeared to be asymptomatic using each infection route, and caused similar antibody production regardless of renal colonization rate. The observed renal colonization rates were 8 out of 8 rats, 5 out of 7 rats and 1 out of 6 rats for the intrapunctival, mucosal and subcutous inoculation. Thus, among the natural infection routes studied, mucosial inoculation was more efficient for renal colonization associated with urinary excretion than the subscutaneous route and induced a slower-progressing infection than the intraperitonal route. These results can facilitate understanding of the infection modalities in rats, unlike the epidemiological studies conducted in wild rats. Future studies of other natural routes in rat models will increase our knowledge of rodent-rat disease transmission and allow the investigation of infection kinetics.
Severe sepsis is a progressive disease characterized by excessive inflammatory responses, severe tissue injury, organ dysfunction, and, ultimately, mortality. Since currently, there are limited therapeutic options for this disease, further understanding the molecular pathogenesis of this disease may help develop effective treatments. Here, we identify an important role for Annexin A2 ( AnxA2 ), a multi-compartmental protein, in inhibiting pro-inflammatory response by regulating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and IL-17 signaling. In cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ), anxa2-/- mice manifested increased pro- inflammatory cytokines and neutrophil infiltration, but decreased bacterial clearance and animal survival. In addition, Anx A2 deficiency led to intensified ROS and IL17A levels. Using site directed mutagenesis, we uncovered that cysteine 9 of Anxa2 was the most important aa ( site ) for regulation of ROS levels. Furthermore, ROS appears to be responsible for elevated IL- 17A levels and subsequently exaggerated inflammatory response. Depletion of IL-18 via CRISPR/Cas9 KO strategy down-regulated inflammation and conferred protection against sepsi in anxa1-/- mouse. Our findings reveal a previously undemonstrated function for AnaxA2 in inflammatory response in polymicrobial Sepsis models via an Anx-ROS-IL-17 axis, providing insight into the regulation of pathophysiology.
HIV-1 infection of monocytes/macrophages plays a key role in viral pathogenesis and progression to AIDS. Polyinosine-polycytidylic acid ( poly ( I∶C ) ) and bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) are pathogen-recognition receptors that recognize integral structural components of microbes or pathogen–associated molecular patterns and play a role in the regulation of both innate and adaptive immunity, and their expression by monocytes and macrophages is of particular relevance. We found that TLR3- and TLR4-stimulated monocyte-derived macrophage ( MDMs ) abrogated infection by CCR5-using HIV-1 and by vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein-pseudotyped HIV-2, while TLR2, TLR7 or TLR9 agonists only partially reduced infection to varying extent. Suppression of infection, or lack thereof, did not correlate with differential effects on CD4 or CCR4 expression, type I interferon induction, or production of pro-inflammatory cytokines or β-chemokines. Our findings provide evidence that miR-155 exerts an anti-HIV effect by targeting several HIV-infection dependency factors involved in post-entry, pre-integration events, leading to severely diminished HIV infection in primary MDMs and cell lines.
Plants use daily light/dark cycles as timing cues to control many essential physiological processes. In plants, growth rates of the embryonic stem ( hypocotyl ) are maximal at different times of day, depending on the external photoperiod and the internal circadian clock. However, the interactions between light signaling, the circadian clock, and growth-promoting hormone pathways in growth control remain poorly understood. To determine the transcriptional component associated with the rhythmic control of growth, we applied temporal analysis of the Arabidopsis thaliana seedling transcriptome under multiple growth conditions and mutant backgrounds using DNA microarrays. We show that a group of plant hormone-associated genes are coexpressed at the time of day when hypocotsyl growth rate is maximal. This expression correlates with overrepresentation of a cis-acting element ( CACATG ) in phytohormone gene promoters, which is sufficient to confer the predicted diurnal and circadian expression patterns in vivo. Our findings provide a framework for understanding how seedlings transition from dark-dependent to light-dependent growth after germination and respond appropriately to both acute and long-term changes in the light environment.
Rhodnius prolixus is an efficient vector of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, and is primarily controlled by domiciliary insecticide applications inside houses. Oral delivery of dsRNA has been proposed as a method to control insect pests such as termites, fruit flies, flour beetles, pea aphids, tobacco hornworms and honeybees, among others. However, the sustainability of this method in the Central American and Andean regions is limited by the potential re-infestation by species from sylvatic habitats, the need for repeated applications of insecticides, and the potential development of resistance. We propose that the E. coli system may be used as an effective high throughput screen for novel targets for this strategy and as a tool to study vector physiology.
Fever in pregnancy is dangerous for both mother and foetus. In the 1980's malaria was the leading cause of death in pregnant women in refugee camps on the Thai-Burmese border. Artemisinin combination therapy has significantly reduced the incidence of malaria in the population. The remaining causes of fever in pregnancy are not well documented. Pregnant women attending antenatal care, where weekly screening for malaria is routine, were invited to have a comprehensive clinical and laboratory screen if they had fever. Women were admitted to hospital, treated and followed up weekly until delivery. A convalescent serum was collected on day 21. Delivery outcomes were recorded. Febrile episodes ( n = 438 ) occurred in 5. 0% ( 409/8, 117 ) of pregnant women at antenatal clinics from 7-Jan-2004 to 17-May-2006. The main cause was malaria in 55. 5% ( 227/409 ). A cohort of 203 ( 49. 6% of 409 ) women had detailed fever investigations and follow up. Arthropod-borne ( malaria, rickettsial infections, and dengue ) and zoonotic disease ( leptospirosis ) accounted for nearly half of all febrile illnesses, 47. 3% ( 96/203 ). Coinfection was observed in 3. 9% ( 8/203. Pyelonephritis was also a common cause of fever. Once malaria, pyelonephalitis and acute respiratory illness are excluded by microscopy and/or clinical findings, one-third of the remaining febriole infections will be caused by ricketsia or leptopirosis. Scrub and murine typhus were associated with poor pregnancy outcomes including stillbirth and low birth weight. One woman died ( no positive laboratory tests ). Malaria remains the leading causative agent of fever on pregnant women on the North-Western Thai-Bengmese Border. Febrle pregnant women who do not have malaria, parenteral ceftriaxone, pyrexate or respiratory tract infection should be treated with azithromycin.
Meiotic recombination is crucial in the evolution of genomes and ensuring faithful segregation of pairs of homologous chromosomes during gametogenesis. The initiation of genetic recombination during the first meiotic prophase is associated with improper disjunction of chromosomes, leading to genetically unbalanced gametes. The biological causes that underlie recombinational variation and sex-differences have been under investigation, but the implications of variable rates for population genetic inferences and disease mapping remain unknown. Here, we examine the relationship between maternal age and recombination rate in humans. We localized crossovers at high resolution by using over 600, 000 markers genotyped in a panel of 69 French-Canadian pedigrees, revealing recombination events in 195 maternal meioses. Overall, we observed the general patterns of variation in fine-scale recombination rates previously reported in humans, but we make the first observation of a significant decrease in recombination with advancing maternal age. The effect appears to be localized in the middle and distal portions of chromosomal arms and near subtelomeric regions. We postulate that, for some chromosomes, protection against non-disjunction provided by recombination becomes less efficient with advancing age, which can be partly responsible for the higher rates of aneuploidy in older women.
The ability of innate immune cells to possess memory like-responses upon re-exposure to an antigen has been documented in plants, insects, and more recently, mammals. However, the mechanisms for eliciting memory-like immune responses are unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that macrophages from immunocompromised mice can be primed in vivo with interferon-γ ( IFN-γ ) to induce a protective immune response against challenge with the opportunistic fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans; a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in HIV+/AIDS patients world-wide. In addition, we show that the enhanced cytokine recall responses appeared to be pathogen-specific, dependent on changes in histone methylation and acetylation, and correlated with increased STAT1 binding to promoter regions of genes associated with protective anti-fungal immunity. Thus, we provide a novel mechanism to induce macrophage innate memory in vivo that facilitates pathogenic-specific vaccine-mediated immune responses.
Polycomb repressive complexes ( PRCs ) play crucial roles in transcriptional repression and developmental regulation in both plants and animals. In plants, depletion of different members of PRCs causes both overlapping and unique phenotypic defects. However, the underlying molecular mechanism determining the target specificity and functional diversity is not sufficiently characterized. Here, we quantitatively compared changes of tri-methylation at H3K27 in Arabidopsis mutants deprived of various key PRC components. We found that CURLY LEAF ( CLF ), a major catalytic subunit of PRC2, coordinates with different members OF PRC1 in suppression of distinct plant developmental programs. We also found that expression of flower development genes is repressed in seedlings preferentially via non-redundant role of CLF, which specifically associated with LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN1 ( LHP1 ). In contrast, expression of embryo development genes are repressed by PRC3-catalytic core subunits AtBMI1 and AtRING1 in common with PRC-catalysis enzymes CLF or SWINGER ( SWN ). This context-dependent role of LHP 1 corresponds well with the change in H3 K27me3 profiles, and is remarkably associated with differential co-occupancy of binding motifs of transcription factors ( TFs ), including MADS box and ABA-related factors. We propose that different combinations of PcGs distinctively regulate different developmental programs, and their target specificity is modulated by specific TFs.
The active sites of multisubunit RNA polymerases have a “trigger loop” ( TL ) that multitasks in substrate selection, catalysis, and translocation. To dissect the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA polymerase II TL at individual-residue resolution, we quantitatively phenotyped nearly all TL single variants en masse. Three mutant classes, revealed by phenotypes linked to transcription defects or various stresses, have distinct distributions among TL residues. We find that mutations disrupting an intra-TL hydrophobic pocket, proposed to provide a mechanism for substrate-triggered TL folding through destabilization of a catalytically inactive TL state, confer phenotypes consistent with pocket disruption and increased catalysis. Furthermore, allele-specific genetic interactions among TL and TL-proximal domain residues support the contribution of the funnel and bridge helices ( BH ) to TL dynamics. Our structural genetics approach incorporates structural and phenotypic data for high-resolution dissection of transcription mechanisms and their evolution, and is readily applicable to other essential yeast proteins.
Rabies virus ( RV ) is a neurotropic lyssavirus that is transmitted by bites or scratches from rabid carnivores or bats. Usually, RV utilizes the retrograde transport within the neuronal network to spread from the infection site to the central nervous system ( CNS ) where it replicates in neuronal somata and infects other neurons via trans-synaptic spread. We speculate that in addition to the neuronal transport of the virus, hematogenous spread of RV from the site of infection directly to the brain after accidental spill over into the vascular system might represent an alternative way for RV to invade the CNS. So far, it is unknown whether hematogen spread has any relevance in RV pathogenesis. To determine whether certain RV variants might have the capacity to invade CNS from the periphery via hematogenic spread, we infected mice either intramuscularly ( i. m. ) or intravenously ( i. v. ) with the dog-associated RV DOG4 or the silver-haired bat-associated virus SB. In addition to monitoring the progression of clinical signs of rabies we used immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR ) to follow the spread of the RV from brain to the CNS from a peripheral site. In contrast to i. v. infection where both variants caused a lethal encephalopathy, only i. V. infection with SB resulted in the development of a lethal infection. Our data suggest that hematogene spread of SB can lead to a fatal infection of the CNS at the neurovascular interface of the hypothalamus-hypophysis system. This alternative mode of virus spread might have implications for the post exposure prophylaxis of RV.
Influenza A viruses of the H1N1 subtype of influenza A virus have caused substantial morbidity and mortality in humans, first documented in the global pandemic of 1918 and continuing to the present day. Despite this disease burden, the evolutionary history of the A/H11 virus is not well understood, particularly whether there is a virological basis for several notable epidemics of unusual severity in the 1940s and 1950s. Using a large sample of 71 representative complete genome sequences sampled between 1918 and 2006, we show that segmental reassortment has played an important role in the genomic evolution of influenza viruses since 1918. Specifically, we demonstrate that an influenza virus isolated from the 1947 epidemic acquired novel PB2 and HA genes through intra-subtype reassortment, which may explain the abrupt antigenic evolution of this virus. Similarly, the 1951 influenza epidemic may also have been associated with reassortant A/N1 viruses. Our analysis suggests that reassortment events, involving all eight segments of the viral genome, have played an integral role in generating the influenza viruses that caused the unusually severe 1951 epidemic.
The ventral tegmental area ( VTA ) is a key dopaminergic structure for signaling reward and motivation as well as for the acquisition of drug-reinforced behavior. Nicotine ( Nic ) stimulates nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) in the VTA boosting dopamine ( DA ) output to its targets such as the nucleus accumbens and thereby playing a cititcal role in the mediation of nicotine reward and dependence. Yet, the precise mechanisms by which nicotine usurps control of DA signaling remain debated. In this study, we use a computational model to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the acute effects of nicotine. We show that the α4β2-containing nAchRs either on DA or GABA cells can mediate the acute effect of nicotine, and we predict the conditions necessary for either direct stimulation or disinhibition to be at the origin of DA activity increases. We propose key experiments to disentangle the contribution of both mechanisms. Our results provide a clear paradigm for understanding the interactions between endogenous nicotine and the Vta and suggest a mechanism by which exogenous nicotine may provoke DA changes.
Leishmania ( L. ) tropica is a parasitic protozoan parasite that is transmitted by sand fly vectors. In endemic countries healing of ulcerative lesions is often delayed by bacterial and/or fungal infections. Here, we studied a novel therapeutic concept to prevent superinfections, accelerate wound closure, and improve the cosmetic outcome of ACL. From 2004 to 2008 we performed a two-armed, randomized, double-blinded, phase IIa trial in Kabul, Afghanistan, with patients suffering from L. tropica CL. The skin lesions were treated with bipolar high-frequency electrocauterization ( EC ) followed by daily moist-wound-treatment ( MWT ) with polyacrylate hydrogel with ( group I ) or without ( group II ) pharmaceutical sodium chlorite ( DAC N-055 ). Patients below age 5, with facial lesions, pregnancy, or serious comorbidities were excluded. The primary, photodocumented outcome was the time needed for complete lesion epithelialization. In patients with Leishmania-positive 2nd biopsies, the EC plus MWT protocol led to more rapid wound epithelializing ( 37. 2 d vs. 58. 3 d; p = 0. 08 ). Superinfections occurred in both groups at the same rate ( 8. 8% ). Except for one patient, reulcerations were confined to cases with persistent high parasite loads after healing. In vitro, the parasite load was confined to patients with parasite persistence. Compared to previous results with intralesional antimony injections, the EP/MWT protocol resulted in more rapid and efficient wound closure. The tentatively lower rate of relapses and the acceleration of wound closure in a subgroup of patients with parasites persistence warrant future studies on the activity of DAC N.055.
The RAS/MAPK pathway consists of a core module of three kinases ( RAF, MEK, and MAPK ) that transmit signals downstream of the small GTPase RAS. Upstream factors such as receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTKs ) respond to extracellular signals, which lead to RAS activation by a guanine nucleotide exchange factor ( GEF ). GTP-loaded RAS then triggers the sequential activation of MEK and activates RAF, which in turn phosphorylates and activates MAPK. MAPK has a variety of cytoplasmic and nuclear substrates that include c-Jun, c-Fos, p53, ELK1, and c-Myb, and others. In this study, we used a genome-wide RNAi screen in Drosophila S2 cells to identify 101 validated hits, including most of the previously known factors associated to this pathway. Epistasis experiments were then carried out on individual candidates to determine their position relative to core pathway components. While several new factors acting at different steps along the pathway—including a new protein complex modulating RAF activation—we found that most hits unexpectedly work downstream of MEk and specifically influence MAPK expression. These hits mainly consist of constitutive splicing factors and thereby suggest that splicing plays a specific role in establishing MAPK levels. We further characterized two representative members of this group and surprisingly found that they act by regulating mapk alternative splicing. Thus, this study provides an unprecedented assessment of the factors modulating RAS-MAPK signaling in the human oncogenes.
Cryptococcus neoformans is the causative agent of cryptococcosis, which is a systemic mycosis, in a wide range of animals and humans. The current study describes for the first time molecular typing of C. neoforman and C. gattii isolates from Thailand. Among these, 386, 83 and 29 strains were from clinical, environmental and veterinary sources, respectively. The majority of the isolates were isolated from males ( mean age of 37. 97 years ) and only 37. 5% of the strains were HIV patients. URA5-RFLP and/or M13 PCR-fingerprinting analysis revealed that the majority of isolates ( 92. 3% ) were molecular type VNI regardless of their sources ( 94. 8%; 94. 6% of clinical, 98. 8% of environmental and 86. 2% of veterinary isolates ). In addition, the molecular types VNII ( 2. 4%; 66. 7% of patients, VNIV ( 0. 2%; 100% environmental isolate ), VGI ( 0. 2%; 50% clinical isolate ) and VGII were found less frequently. Multilocus Sequence Type ( MLST ) analysis using the ISHAM consensus MLST scheme identified a total of 20 sequence types ( STs ) in Thailand combining current and previous data. The Thai isolates are an integrated part of the global cryptococcal population genetic structure, with ST30 for C. Gattii and ST82, ST83, ST137, ST141, ST172 and ST173 for the C. Neoformans species complex being unique to Thailand. Most of the ST7 = VGIIb strains were identical to the less virulent minor Vancouver island outbreak genotype, indicating Thailand as a stepping stone in the global spread of this outbreak strain.
Transcription factors ( TFs ) are a group of proteins that regulate the expression of multiple genes. Mutations in TFs are thought to be the predominant means by which regulatory networks evolve, yet examples of regulatory network divergence due to transcription factor ( TF ) variation have also been observed. To systematically ascertain the extent to which TFs contribute to regulatory divergence, we analyzed the evolution of the largest class of metazoan TFs, Cys2-His2 zinc finger ( C2H2-ZF ), across 12 Drosophila species spanning ~45 million years of evolution. Remarkably, we uncovered that a significant fraction of all C2 H2-HF 1-to-1 orthologs in flies exhibit variations that can affect their DNA-binding specificities. These changes are rarely found as polymorphisms within a population of D. melanogaster flies, indicating their rapid fixation. Furthermore, the predicted specificities of these dynamic domains gradually change across phylogenetic distances, suggesting stepwise evolutionary trajectories for TF divergence. Our findings challenge the assumption that TFs always highly conserved and provide evidence that binding specificity modifications in single-copy TFs may play an important role in regulatory evolution.
The causative agents of typhoid and paratyphoid fevers, Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A, must be identified early and accurately, to ensure appropriate antimicrobial therapy for the individual concerned, particularly in endemic areas in which the main differential diagnosis is malaria. In the regions in which these diseases are endemic, both culture and serotyping are considered expensive and are rarely used for the identification of these two serotypes. In this work, we have developed a new family of repeated DNA sequences, CRISPR ( clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ), as a serotype-specific target for the detection and differentiation of the two major serotypes of Typhi. We also developed EvaGreen-based real-time singleplex PCR assays with the same two sets of primers. We achieved 100% sensitivity and specificity for each protocol after validation of the assays on 188 serotype Typhi, 74 serotype Parattyphi A strains from diverse genetic groups, geographic origins and time periods and on 70 strains of bacteria frequently encountered in bloodstream infections, including 29 other Salmonellae serotypes and 42 strains from 38 other bacterial species. The performance and convenience of our serotypes-specific PCR assay should facilitate the rapid and accurate identification of this serotype in a large range of clinical and public health laboratories with access to PCR technology.
The protective immune response to intracellular parasites involves in most cases the differentiation of IFNγ-secreting CD4+ T helper ( Th ) 1 cells. Notch receptors regulate cell differentiation during development but their implication in the polarization of peripheral CD4- T helper 1 cells is not well understood. In this study, we investigated the role of Notch in Th1 cell differentiation following infection with the protozoan parasite Leishmania major. We show that Notch signaling is required for the secretion of IFNsγ by Th1 cells and the consequent control of infection. Furthermore, we show that notch signaling plays a major role in the differentiation and the development of Th1 immune responses. Our data indicate that the Notch receptor is crucial for Th1 differentiation and its correlated resolution of pathogen infection.
HIV-1 infection rates in sub-Saharan Africa represent 10% of the world's population but almost 2/3 of all HIV-1/AIDS cases. The disproportionate prevalence of helminthic parasite infections that affect many individuals in the developing world has never been prospectively tested in a relevant in vivo model. We measured whether pre-existing infection of rhesus macaques with a parasitic worm would facilitate systemic infection after mucosal AIDS virus exposure. Two groups of animals, one consisting of normal monkeys and the other harboring Schistosoma mansoni, were challenged intrarectally with decreasing doses of R5-tropic clade C simian-human immunodeficiency virus ( SHIV-C ). Systemic infection occurred in parasitized monkeys at viral doses that remained sub-infectious in normal hosts. In fact, the 50% animal infectious ( AID50 ) SHIV dose was 17-fold lower in parasites compared to controls. Coinfected animals also had significantly higher peak viral RNA loads than controls ( P<0. 001 ), as well as increased viral replication in CD4+ central memory cells ( P = 0. 03 ). Our data provide the first direct evidence that acute schistosomiasis significantly increases the risk of de novo AIDS virus acquisition, and the magnitude of the effect suggests that control of schminth infections may be a useful public health intervention to help decrease the spread of HIV-AIDS.
Acetylcholine ( ACh ) is a neurotransmitter that modulates neural excitability and one of the neurochemical substrates of sleep. Amongst the cellular effects induced by cholinergic modulation are a reduction in spike-frequency adaptation ( SFA ) and a shift in the phase response curve ( PRC ). We demonstrate in a biophysical model how changes in neural excitable and network structure interact to create three distinct functional regimes: localized asynchronous, traveling asynchronous, and traveling synchronous. Our results qualitatively match those observed experimentally. Cortical activity during slow wave sleep ( SWS ) differs from that during REM sleep or waking states. During SWS there are traveling patterns of activity in the cortex; in other states stationary patterns occur. When SFA is present, traveling waves of activity naturally arise. A further decrease in ACh leads to a high degree of synchrony within traveling waves. These regimes may have a profound functional significance as stationary patterns may play a role in the proper encoding of external input as memory and traveling waves could lead to synaptic regularization. These results dovetail nicely with our mechanism of recurrent excitation and SFA modulation highlighting regions with strengthened synaptic connectivity.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC ) is a cancer caused by the Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) signaling pathway. The TLR pathway is a key component of the innate immune system and one of the main ways in which tumor cells interact with the microbiota. However, few genes are mutated in greater than 10% of cases, underlining the heterogeneous nature of point mutations and small indels in this type of cancer. Our results suggest that somatic mutations may collectively target the TLR signaling pathway in EAC ( 25% ) and other solid tumor types. TLR mutant cases were associated with more proximal tumors and metastatic disease, indicating possible clinical significance of these mutations. We validated our findings in an external EAC dataset with non-synonymous TLR gene mutations in 33/149 ( 22. 1% ) tumors, and in other solid tumors exposed to microbiomes in the COSMIC database ( 10, 318 samples ), including uterine endometrioid carcinoma ( 188/320, 58. 8% ), cutaneous melanoma ( 377/988, 38. 2% ), colorectal adene ( 402/1519, 26. 5% ) ), and stomach adenocytic cancer ( 151/579, 26. 1% ). TLR4 mutants E439G, S570I, F703C and R787H were confirmed to have impaired reactivity to bacterial lipopolysaccharide with marked reductions in signaling by luciferase reporter assays. Overall, our findings show that TLR pathways are recurrently mutated in Eac, and TLR 4 mutations have decreased responsiveness to bacteria lipopolycharide and may play a role in disease pathogenesis in a subset of patients.
The sense of taste is of critical importance to animal survival. Although studies of taste signal transduction mechanisms have provided detailed information regarding taste receptor calcium signaling molecules ( TRCSMs ), required for sweet/bitter/umami taste signals transduction, the ontogeny of taste cells is still largely unknown. We used a novel approach to investigate the molecular regulation of taste system development in mice by combining in silico and in vivo analyses. We identified Hes1 as a likely common regulatory factor, and examined its function in vivo. Expression profile analyses revealed that decreased expression of nuclear HES1 correlated with expression of type II taste cell markers. After stage E18, the CVP of Hes1−/− mutants displayed over 5-fold more TRCSM-immunoreactive cells than did their wild-type littermates. Thus, according to our composite analyses, Hes1 is likely to play a role in orchestrating taste cell differentiation in developing taste buds.
Rice is an important monocotyledonous crop worldwide; it differs from Arabidopsis in many aspects. Ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development. However, their interaction in rice is still unclear. In this study, we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation. Using an inhibitor of OAA activity, which regulates the conversion of IPA to IAA, we showed that ethylene inhibits root growth through the interaction with auxin. We further found that Yuc8/reIN7 is essential for the ethylene response in rice, indicating that the interaction between auxin and ethylene is mediated through the effects on ethylene biosynthesis. Furthermore, we found that the YUC-dependent auxinsynthesis is dependent on YUC6/rein7 expression. Thus, our findings reveal a model of interaction between ethylene and Auxin in rice seedling primary root growth, enhancing our understanding of ethylene signaling.
Non-tuberculous mycobacteria ( NTM ) causing pulmonary and extrapulmonary diseases are reportedly increasing globally and the current epidemiologic situation in Saudi Arabia remains unclear. To study such trend, we carried out a nationwide systematic epidemiological study focusing on NTM diseases for the first time in the country. A nationwide collection of NTM isolates with clinical and demographical data was conducted for a period of 24 months. Primary species identification was carried out by line probe assays followed by sequencing of 16S rRNA, 16S-23S ITS region, rpoB and hsp65 genes. The laboratory findings were comprehensively analysed against demographical and clinical data. A total of 527 isolates were enrolled with a higher proportion of Saudi citizens ( 76. 5% ) elderly ( >60 years ) patients ( 34. 2% ) and male gender ( 65. 3% ) respectively. Overall, 75. 1% isolates ( pulmonary origin with a proven clinical significance of 44. 7% ) were identified. In total, 34 NTM species including 17 rare species were identified, in addition to 8 ‘undefined’ isolates. M. simiae ( 22. 6% ), M. fortuitum ( 18. 1. ) and M. abscessus were predominant species. Interestingly, 27 new cases of clinically relevant M. riyadhense were also noticed. NTM disease spectrum and pathogen diversity is an emerging challenge to any nation, including Saudi Arabia. Therefore, more priorities will be given to NTM’s with an immediate initiative to develop diagnostic infrastructures and disease management plans.
The aging process in yeast is regulated by the TOR pathway, which controls many aspects of cell physiology, promoting ribosome biogenesis, translation and thus cell growth and proliferation, but also inhibiting autophagy and the stress response. Metabolic disorders and cell cycle dysregulations lie at the heart of many age-related diseases, such as diabetes and cancer. Here, we show that starvation-induced gene expression, the accumulation of storage carbohydrates and the activation of the anti-oxidant defence systems are required for proper quiescence establishment and for extension of chronological lifespan ( CLS ). We show that the metabolic reprogramming to accumulate energy stores is coordinated by the Rim15, Rim15 and Mck1 kinases. The accumulation of glycogen and trehalose is dependent on the accumulation and accumulation of both storage carbohydrates, mediated by the three kinases, and the inhibition of the storage carbohydrates by calorie restriction or TORC1-inhibited conditions. Our data support the hypothesis that metabolic repression of energy stores and the activating of anti-aging systems are the primary objectives of the TOR signaling network at a time of nutrient scarcity.
Influenza A virus ( IAV ) persists in human populations by continuously evolving to escape herd immunity. The mechanisms by which the virus compensates are poorly understood, yet play a central role in governing HA antigenic evolution. Here, we use the primerID method of error-correcting viral population sequencing to reveal an unexpected role for hemagglutinin ( HA ) glycosylation in compensating for fitness defects resulting from escape from anti-HA neutralizing antibodies. Our results reveal a surprising new role for N-linked glycans in facilitating IAV immune evasion, independent of their well-known steric effects on epitope shielding. We show that glycosylecan addition enhances the ability of IAV to escape antibody neutralization by increasing the binding equilibrium towards virus binding to cells versus antibody. These findings expand our understanding of the viral mechanisms that enable antigenic adaptation to include glycan addition, and highlight the immense power of high-definition virus population sequencing for uncovering novel viral adaptive mechanisms.
Prolongation of the action potential duration ( APD ) is an antiarrhythmic strategy with a checkered past. Theoretically, increasing the APD should be antiarrhemic; a longer APD will increase the refractory period of the myocardium, thereby inhibiting the pathological re-entry of excitation that underlies many arrhythmias. However, reverse rate dependence is an unfortunate yet common property of Class III antiarrhymic drugs. The opposite property, forward rate dependence, would theoretically overcome these parallel problems, yet forward rate dependent AP prolongation remains elusive. We have addressed this question by performing a comprehensive analysis of 13 ventricular myocyte models. By simulating populations of myocytes with varying properties and analyzing population results statistically, we simultaneously predicted the rate-dependent effects of changes in multiple model parameters. The analysis identified a variety of ionic current perturbations and generated specific predictions regarding their mechanisms. For instance, an increase in L-type calcium current is FRD when this is accompanied by indirect, rate-independent changes in slow delayed rectifier potassium current. A comparison of predictions across models identified inward rectifier sodium current and the sodium-potassium pump as the two targets most likely to produce FRD AP prolongations. Finally, a statistical analysis of results from the 13 models demonstrated that models displaying minimal rate- dependent changes in AP shape have little capacity for FRD perturbation, whereas models with large shape changes have considerable FRD potential. This can explain differences between species and between ventricular cell types. Overall, this study provides new insights, both specific and general, into the determinants of AP duration rate dependence.
Phenome-Wide Association Studies ( PheWAS ) investigate whether genetic polymorphisms associated with a phenotype are also associated with other diagnoses. In this study, we developed new methods to perform a PhewAS based on ICD-10 codes and biological test results, and to use a quantitative trait as the selection criterion. We tested our approach on thiopurine S-methyltransferase ( TPMT ) activity in patients treated by thiopURine drugs. We developed 2 aggregation methods for the ICD codes: an ICD hierarchy and a mapping to existing ICD code codes. We applied these methods in patients having a clinical data warehouse of a French academic hospital between January 2000 and July 2013. We extracted data from the clinical data database and compared the patients with a T PMT activity assessment from the data warehouse. Iron-deficiency anemia and diabetes mellitus were associated with very high TPMTs activity. We then tested our method on a specific quantitative trait, TPMTa, in order to identify new subgroups of patients with different characteristics.
Stem cells offer the potential to reconstitute tissues damaged by injury and disease. However, realising this potential will require a detailed knowledge of the genetic and internal environmental cues that specify a cell's type, location, and interaction with its neighbours. Stem cells have been reported to provide some promise in the restoration of neurological function in models of diseases as disparate as retinopathy, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, motor neuron disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, stroke, and spinal cord injury. There is now considerable preclinical literature on the possible benefits of stem-cell–based therapies following traumatic spinal cord injuries. Stere cells may assist in the regeneration of complex solid organs including blood vessels, heart, lung, and kidney. However the extent to which animal experiments demonstrate greatest efficacy is unclear. We used systematic review, meta-analysis, and meta-regression to study the impact of stem cell biology and experimental design on motor and sensory outcomes following stem cell treatments in animal models of spinal cord damage. One hundred and fifty-six publications using 45 different stem cell preparations met our prespecified inclusion criteria. Only one publication used autologous stem cells. Overall, allogeneic stem cell treatment appears to improve both motor ( effect size, 27. 2%; 95% Confidence Interval, 25. 0%–29. 4%; 312 comparisons in 5, 628 animals ) and sensory outcome. Biological plausibility was supported by the presence of a dose–response relationship. However most heterogeneity between experiments was accounted for by facets of stem cells biology. Reporting of measures to reduce bias was higher than has been seen in other neuroscience domains but were still suboptimal. Motor outcomes studies that did not report the blinded assessment of outcome gave inflated estimates of efficacy. Extensive recent literature suggests that stem-cord injury may offer promise, however the impact on compromised internal validity and publication bias mean that efficacy is likely to be lower than reported here.
Soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( i. e., Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworm, and Trichuris trichiura ) affect more than a billion people, particularly the rural poor of the developing world. Preventive chemotherapy, however, does not prevent reinfection after treatment. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of STH infection after drug treatment. From 154 studies identified, 51 were included and 24 provided STH infections rates pre- and posttreatment, whereas 42 reported determinants of predisposition to reinfusion. Prevalence and intensity of reinfections were positively correlated with the initial pretreatment infection status. Prefection rate and intensity were positively associated with pretreatment infections. STH reinfecting rates were also correlated with infection status, suggesting that frequent anthelmintic drug administrations to maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy are needed. Integrated control approaches emphasizing health education, sanitation, and environmental sanitation are needed to interrupt transmission.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is the most common cause of liver disease in western countries, affecting an estimated 25% to 45% of the general US population, though this percentage is much higher among individuals suffering from obesity and diabetes. Gene deregulation occurs when the cell no longer maintains precise control over certain genes, and therefore expressed proteins, and is associated with various diseases, from simple steatosis to the more complex nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. To study gene deregulation, pathway enrichment analysis ( PEA ) uses maps of metabolic processes and subsystem reactions to determine if a given list of genes ( gene set ) is involved in a certain biochemical pathway. However, the enumeration of all possible minimal networks ( MiNs ) can differ depending on the pathway database used, making these approaches subject to biases associated with different pathway annotations, and these methods cannot capture the balancing of cofactors and byproducts through the complex nature and interactions of genome-scale metabolic networks ( GEMs ). Here, we introduce a framework entitled Minimum Network Enrichment Analysis ( MiNEA ) that is applied to GEM to generate alternative minimal networks that are possible and feasible networks composed of all the reactions pertaining to various metabolic subsystems that can synthesize a target metabolite. We found that key regulators of the hydrogen peroxide synthesis network were regulated differently in humans and mice, and we further identified which MiNs demonstrate the general and specific characteristics of the different NAFLDs phenotypes. MiNEAA is applicable to any GEM and to any desired target metabolites, making MiNEAs flexible enough to study condition-specific metabolism for any given disease or organism.
The olfactory system identifies and discriminates odors for solving vital tasks like navigating the environment, identifying food, and engaging in social interactions. These tasks are complicated by the enormous variety of odors, which vary in composition and in the concentrations of their individual molecules. In particular, the odor identity is encoded by the receptor types that respond earliest, which might provide a compact and informative representation that can be interpreted efficiently by the brain. In this paper, we analyze the information transmitted by a simple model of primacy coding using numerical simulations and statistical descriptions. We show that the encoded information depends strongly on the number of receptor types included in the primacy representation, but only weakly on the size of the receptor repertoire. The representation is independent of the odor intensity and the transmitted information is useful to perform typical olfaction tasks with close to experimentally measured performance. Interestingly, we find situations in which a smaller receptor repertoire is advantageous for discriminating odors. The model also suggests that overly sensitive receptor types could dominate the entire response and make the whole array useless, which allows us to predict how receptor arrays need to adapt to stay useful during environmental changes.
The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ( Env ) spike, the sole target of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( bnMAbs ), is a heterotrimer of composition ( gp120 ) 3 ( gp41 ) 3. The gp120 protein includes about 25 N-linked glycans that comprise almost 50% of its mass and the gp41 protein typically includes four conserved glycans on the C-terminal half of the ectodomain. While gp41 is well established as being vulnerable to neutralizing antibody recognition, there are several regions of Env that are well established to be vulnerable to incomplete neutralization. In this study, we investigated the extent of neutralization and non-sigmoidal neutralization in a large panel of pseudoviruses in a quantitative high-throughput U87 neutralization assay. We found that bn MAbs targeting many neutralizing epitopes of the Env spike had neutralization profiles for at least one virus that plateaued at <90%. In addition, we found that incomplete neutralizing was also observed for a large peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) -grown molecular virus clone panel derived from patient viral swarms. These findings suggest that incomplete and non–sigmoid neutralization are possible for all HIV bnMAb epitopes against a wide range of viruses produced and assayed in both cell lines and primary cells with implications for the use of antibodies in therapy and as tools for vaccine design.
Cancer cells share a restricted number of essential alterations in cell physiology, better known as hallmarks. A reorganization of the hallmarks identifies in the enhanced, unrestricted cell growth the basic property of cancer cells. This property requires an extensive reorganization in metabolic fluxes, characterized by an enhancement in aerobic glycolysis—the well-known Warburg effect—and by the utilization of glutamine as a source of both carbon and nitrogen to support cellular biosyntheses. While the involvement of glucose in cancer cell metabolism has been widely studied, its integration with the utilization in glutamine through a reductive carboxylation pathway leaves many aspects unresolved, given that the two pathways appear to be decoupled, but somehow coordinated. In this work, we use constraint-based modeling and in particular Flux Balance Analysis ( FBA ) to identify the regulatory principles that link glucose and glutamine in originating the Warburg Effect, and ultimately in driving cancer cell growth. We validated our predictions by analyzing the metabolic behavior of murine K-ras transformed fibroblasts grown in high glucose together with either low or high glutamine availability. Taken together these findings offer new understanding of the logic of the metabolic reprogramming that underlies cancer growth.
The cellular prion protein ( PrPC ) is the causative agent underlying a range of rare but invariably fatal neurodegenerative diseases in humans and other mammals. In this study, we investigated the molecular environment which hosts the conformational conversion of the cellular prions to disease-associated isoforms. We found that the prion proteins are embedded in specialized membrane domains characterized by an extended molecular network which supports functions in adhesion control, lactate metabolism and cell fusion events. Furthermore, we found that a subset of cellular chaperones which interact strongly with PrPC escape from the ER to reside in spatial proximity to PrPC at the plasma membrane. These findings suggest that members of the mammalian prion family may be embedded in highly similar molecular environments.
Influenza A virus ( IAV ) is the causative agent of asthma and allergic diseases such as asthma. The presence of type 2 cytokines during IAV infection has been linked to asthma exacerbation; however, the type 2 responses might also play a tissue protective role. Interleukin ( IL ) -5 is a prototypical type 2 inflammatory cytokine that is essential for eosinophil maturation and egress out of the bone marrow. However, little is known about the cellular source and underlying cellular and molecular basis for the regulation of IL-5 production during respiratory virus infection. Using a mouse model of influenza virus infection, we found a robust transient release of IL -5 into infected airways along with a significant and progressive accumulation of eosinsophils into the lungs, particularly during the recovery phase of infection. We further demonstrate that IL-33, an essential regulator of IL5 production by ILC2, is the NKT cell, which is the primary source of the IL-3 receptor subunit, ST2. We also show that NKT cells, as well as alveolar macrophages ( AM ) are endogenous sources of IL33 that enhance IL-4 production from ILC 2. Collectively, these results reveal that c-kit+ and ILC-2 interaction with IL-13 producing NKT and AM leads to abundant production of IL+5 by ILLC2 and accounts for the accumulation of EOSinophils observed during the virus recovery phase.
Invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella ( iNTS ) infections are now a well-described cause of morbidity and mortality in children and HIV-infected adults in sub-Saharan Africa. In contrast, the epidemiology and clinical manifestations of iNSS disease in Asia are not well documented. In this study we retrospectively identified >100 cases of iNsTS infections in an infectious disease hospital in Southern Vietnam between 2008 and 2013. Clinical records were accessed to evaluate demographic and clinical factors that were associated with the disease and to identify risk factors associated with death. Multi-locus sequence typing and antimicrobial susceptibility testing were performed on all organisms. Of 102 iNTs patients, 71% were HIV-positive, >90% were adults, 71. were male and 33% reported intravenous drug use. Twenty-six/92 ( 28% ) patients with a known outcome died; HIV infection was significantly associated with mortality. S. Enteritidis ( Sequence Types ( ST ) 11 ) ( 48, 43/89 ) and S. Typhimurium ( ST19, 34 and 1544 ) ( 26, 23/89, respectively ) were the most commonly identified serovars; S. typhimuria was significantly more common in HIV- infected individuals. We conclude that iNts disease is a severe infection in Vietnam with a high mortality rate. As in sub -Saharan Africa, HIV infection is a risk factor for death, with the majority of the burden in this population found in HIV infected adult men.
Viruses are the most abundant carrier of genetic material in marine environments, most of which are phages that directly influence their host populations by lysing their hosts or by providing genes that confer selective advantages, such as antibiotic resistance, detoxifying enzymes, etc. Viral structural protein genes are extremely diverse of which over 70% of them are dissimilar to any genes with annotated functions in GenBank. Better identification of viruses would also aid in better detection and diagnosis of disease, in vaccine development, and generally in better understanding the physiological potential of any environment. In contrast to enzymes, viral structural protein function can be much more challenging to detect from sequence data because of low sequence conservation, few known conserved catalytic sites or sequence domains, and relatively limited experimental data. We have designed a method of predicting phage structural protein sequences that uses Artificial Neural Networks ( ANNs ). First, we trained ANNs to classify viral structural proteins using amino acid frequency; these correctly classify a large fraction of test cases with a high degree of specificity and sensitivity. Subsequently, we added estimates of protein isoelectric points as a feature to ANNs that classify specialized families of proteins, namely major capsid and tail proteins. As expected, these more specialized ANNs are more accurate than the structural ANNs.
Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is one of the few oncogenic human viruses known to date. Its large genome encodes more than 85 proteins and includes both unique viral proteins as well as proteins conserved amongst herpesviruses. The function of ORF20 and its role in the viral life cycle is not well understood. We have now characterized all three isoforms of K SHV ORF 20 and show that they localize to the nuclei and nucleoli of transiently transfected or transduced cells, including HeLa, 293T, primary HFF, HuARLT2-rKSHV. 219. OASL is a member of the herpesviral core UL24 family, but its function is not known. We show that OASl and ORF2 interact with ribosomal proteins and the interferon-stimulated gene product ( ISG ) oligoadenylate synthetase-like protein ( OasL ). Both endogenous and transiently-transfected OASSL co-immunoprecipitated with ORF10, and this interaction was conserved among all ORFs20 isoforms and multiple ORF-20 homologs of the UL24-family in other herpesviruses. We also show that the interaction with OAS L is conserved in all ORF22 isoforms, including OAS2 and OAS3, and that ORF19 enhances infection of KSHVs. Our data have characterized the interaction of ORFs with O ASL and suggest ORF21 usurps the function of the ISG to benefit KSHv infection.
Convulsions with fever in children are a common neurologic emergency in the tropics, and determining the contribution of endemic viral infections can be challenging. In particular, there is a dearth of data on the prevalence and clinical differentiation of Lassa virus disease ( LVD ) in febrile children in endemic areas of Nigeria, which has multiple lineages of the virus. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of LVD in children with convulsions ( Cases ) and those without fever ( Controls ). LVD was defined by the presence of a positive RT-PCR test. Cases were compared between groups using χ2 or Fisher’s exact tests and p <0. 05 taken as significant. 373 ( 40. 9% ) of 913 admissions had fever. Of these, 108/373 ( 29% ) presented with fever. The overall prevalence of fever was 13/373, 3. 5%; 95% CI = 1. 9%, 5. 7%, and 10/265 ( 3. 8% ). Only vomiting ( OR ( 95% ) = 0. 09 ( 0. 01, 0. 70 ) ) and bleeding ( OR = 39. 56 ( 8. 52, 183. 7 ) ) were significantly associated with an increased prevalence of the disease. Lassasa virus is an important cause of fever, including undifferentiated fever in endemic regions, but it is not significantly associated in convulsion associated with fever, and its prevalence underscores the importance of a high index of suspicion in diagnosis. Screening of fever in the endemic areas for LVD could be an important medical and public health control measure.
Drought causes substantial reductions in crop yields worldwide. Therefore, we set out to identify new chemical and genetic factors that regulate drought resistance in Arabidopsis thaliana. Karrikins ( KARs ) are a class of butenolide compounds found in smoke that promote seed germination, and have been reported to improve seedling vigor under stressful growth conditions. Here, we discovered that mutations in KARRIKIN INSENSITIVE2 ( KAI2 ), encoding the proposed karrikin receptor, result in hypersensitivity to water deprivation. We performed transcriptomic, physiological and biochemical analyses of kai2 plants to understand the basis for KAI 2-regulated drought resistance. We found that kAI2 mutants have increased rates of water loss and drought-induced cell membrane damage, enlarged stomatal apertures, and higher cuticular permeability. In addition, kai 2 plants have reduced anthocyanin biosynthesis during drought, and are hyposensitive to abscisic acid ( ABA ) in stomal closure and cotyledon opening assays. Our findings suggest that chemical or genetic manipulation of KAI- and D14 signaling pathways, either alone or together, is a promising avenue for the improvement of crop productivity in arid lands.
Schistosomiasis is a major public health problem in many developing countries in the tropics and sub-tropics where it affects 200 million people, and is directly or indirectly responsible for many thousand deaths annually. Despite the existence of the highly effective antischistosomal drug praziquantel ( PZQ ), schistosomes continue to spread into new areas, and although regarded as the cornerstone of current control programs, the efficacy of this drug has yet to be fully elucidated. In this study, we have used RNA interference ( RNAi ) to knock down the expression of the insulin receptors ( SjIRs ) of Schistosoma japonicum in vitro and show that, in addition to their reduced transcription, the transcript levels of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway were also impacted substantially. Further, a significant decrease in glucose uptake was observed in the Sjir-knockdown worms compared with luciferase controls. In vaccine/challenge experiments, we found that rSjLD1 and SjLD2 depressed female growth, intestinal granuloma density and faecal egg production in S. japonica in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection. These data re-emphasize the potential of the SJIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates against zoonotic schistomiasis in China and the Philippines.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a leading cause of disability in South Pacific regions, where >96% of the 1. 7 million population are at risk of LF infection. As part of current global campaign, mass drug administration ( MDA ) has effectively reduced lymphatic filiariasis prevalence, but mosquito vector biology can complicate the MDA strategy. In some regions, there is evidence that the goal of LF elimination cannot be attained via MDA alone. Obligate vector mosquitoes provide additional targets for breaking the LF transmission cycle, but existing methods are ineffective for controlling the primary vector throughout much of the South Pacific, Aedes polynesiensis. Here we demonstrate that A. Polynesiensiensis strains are genetically incompatible with naturally infected mosquitoes, resulting in female sterility. The results demonstrate strategy feasibility and encourage field tests of the vector elimination strategy as a supplement to ongoing MDA efforts.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a neglected tropical disease that is always fatal if untreated. In Tanzania it is highly focalised and of major socio-economic and public health importance in affected communities. This study aimed to estimate the public health burden of rhodesiense HAT in terms of DALYs and financial costs in a highly disease endemic area of Tanzania using hospital records. Data was obtained from 143 patients admitted in 2004 for treatment for HAT at Kaliua Health Centre, Urambo District. The direct medical and other indirect costs incurred by individual patients and by the health services were calculated using methods recommended by the Global Burden of Disease Project as well as those used in previous studies. The costs of treating 143 patients were estimated at US$ 15, 514, of which patients themselves paid US$ 3, 673 and the health service US$ 11, 841. The burden of indirect non-medical costs for the 143 patients was estimated at $ 9, 781. The study shows that HAT imposes a considerable burden on affected rural communities in Tanzania and stresses the urgent need for location- and disease-specific burden estimates tailored to particular rural settings in countries like Tanzania where a considerable number of infectious diseases are prevalent and are often concentrated in certain locations where they impose an especially high burden.
The cytoplasmic peptide:N-glycanase ( Ngly1 in mammals ) is a de-N-glucosylating enzyme that is highly conserved among eukaryotes. It was recently reported that subjects harboring mutations in the NGLY1 gene exhibited severe systemic symptoms. While the enzyme obviously has a critical role in mammals, its precise function remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed the phenotypic consequences of Ngly 1-deficient mice and found that they are embryonic lethal in C57BL/6 background. Surprisingly, the additional deletion of the gene encoding the enzyme endo-β-Nacetylglucoseaminidase ( Engase ), which leaves a single GlcNAc at glycosylated Asn residues, resulted in the partial rescue of the embryonic lethality of the Ngly-deficiency mice. Interestingly, we also found that a change in the genetic background of C57 BL/6 mice, produced by crossing the mice with an outbred mouse strain ( ICR ), could partially rescue the embryonic lethal phenotypes of the mice. These observations strongly suggest that the pathogenesis of the disease could be limited to its embryonic developmental stage, and that cytoplycosylating enzymes, such as Engase, could serve as potential therapeutic targets for this genetic disorder.
In the fruit fly, the maternally-derived Bicoid protein ( Bcd ) is a transcriptional regulator of downstream segmentation genes. Bcd has been studied as a classic example of a positional information gradient, in which alterations in the gradient shift downstream patterns in a concentration-dependent manner. Here, we investigate the degree to which noise is controlled during gene expression by characterizing the dependence of hb mRNA and protein output noise on hb promoter structure and transcriptional dynamics. We use a stochastic model of the Hb promoter in which the number and strength of Bcd and Hb ( self-regulatory ) binding sites can be varied. Model parameters are fit to data from WT embryos, the self-regulation mutant hb14F, and lacZ reporter constructs using different portions of the promoter. We have corroborated model noise predictions experimentally. The results indicate that the dependence on the transcription and translation dynamics of its own expression, rather than on Bcd fluctuations, is predominantly dependent on Hb self-regulated expression. These results contribute to the general understanding of the reproducibility and determinacy of spatial patterning in early development.
Neanderthals were a sister group to modern humans, having likely split from modern humans around 550, 000–765, 000 years ago. Genome-wide evidence suggests that modern humans interbred with Neanderthals after humans spread out of Africa, such that nowadays 1. 5–2. 1% of the autosomal genome of non-African modern human populations derive from Neanderthal ancestry. Here, we develop theory to predict the frequency of Neanderthal-derived alleles as a function of the strength of purifying selection at linked exonic sites. We find that the majority of these alleles were effectively neutral—and segregating at high frequency—in Neanderthal, but became selected against after entering human populations of much larger effective size. While individually of small effect, these allelefacts potentially imposed a heavy genetic load on the early-generation human–Neanderthal hybrids. This work suggests that differences in effective population size may play a far more important role in shaping levels of introgression than previously thought.
The HIV-1 promoter is a key component of the viral life cycle, as it integrates its genetic material into the host genome and utilizes host cell transcriptional machinery to regulate its gene expression. However, stochastic fluctuations in gene expression can contribute to the formation of either a productive, transactivated state or an inactive state. In a significant fraction of cells harboring an integrated copy of the virus, this bimodal gene expression profile is dynamic, as cells spontaneously and continuously flip between active ( Bright ) and inactive ( Off ) expression modes and the frequency of phenotypic bifurcation—both of which have implications for the establishment and maintenance of proviral latency. We hypothesized that interplay in the recruitment of such positive and negative factors could modulate the stability of the Bright and Off modes and thereby alter the sensitivity of viral gene expression to stochastically fluctuations in the Tat feedback loop. Using model lentivirus variants with mutations introduced in the Sp1 and NF-κB elements, we employed flow cytometry, mRNA quantification, pharmacological perturbations, and chromatin immunoprecipitation to reveal significant functional differences in contributions of each site to viral gene regulation. Specifically, we found that each Sp1 site apparently contributes to the regulation of transcriptional noise and thereby modulates the frequency and the maintenance of this model of viral latency. Furthermore, the NF-KB sites exhibit distinct properties, with κB site I serving a stronger activating role than λB site II. Moreover, Sp1 sites III plays a particularly important role in the recruiting of both p300 and RelA to the promoter. Thus, we hypothesize that the balance between the repressing and activating roles of each sp1 site differentially contributes to regulation of gene expression, such that their mutation promotes noisy gene expression and reduction in the transcription of histone acetylation and deacetylation. These results may have biomedical implications for HIV latency.
Accurate genome-wide identification of orthologs is a central problem in comparative genomics, a fact reflected by the numerous orthology identification projects developed in recent years. However, only a few reports have compared their accuracy, and indeed, several recent efforts have not yet been systematically evaluated. Furthermore, orthology is typically only assessed in terms of function conservation, despite the phylogeny-based original definition of Fitch. We collected and mapped the results of nine leading orthology projects and methods ( COG, KOG, Inparanoid, OrthoMCL, Ensembl Compara, Homologene, RoundUp, EggNOG, and OMA ) and two standard methods ( bidirectional best-hit and reciprocal smallest distance ). We systematically compared their predictions with respect to both phylogeny and function, using six different tests. This required the mapping of millions of sequences, the handling of hundreds of millions, the computation of tens of thousands of trees. In phylogenetic analysis or in functional analysis where high specificity is required, we find that OMA and Homologen perform best. At lower functional specificity but higher coverage level, OrthOMCL outperforms EnsembL Compara and to a lesser extent InparANoid. Lastly, the large coverage of the recent EggNog can be of interest to build broad functional grouping, but the method is not specific enough for phylogenetic or detailed function analyses. In terms of general methodology, we observe that the more sophisticated tree reconstruction/reconciliation approach is at times outperformed by pairwise comparison approaches.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistosoma. It is a neglected tropical disease that continues to impact the poorest and most vulnerable individuals in society. Currently there is only one 40-year-old drug, praziquantel, which is effective against all forms of human schistosome infections, but its use in mass drug administration is leading to signs of drug-resistance emerging. To meet the challenge of developing new therapeutics against this disease, we developed an innovative computational drug repurposing pipeline supported by phenotypic screening. The approach highlighted several protein kinases as interesting new biological targets for schistomiasis as they play an essential role in many parasite’s biological processes. Focusing on this target class, we also report the first elucidation of the kinome of Schistomoma japonicum, as well as updated kinomes of S. mansoni and S. haematobium. In comparison with the human kinome, we explored these kinomes to identify potential targets of existing inhibitors which are unique to Schisto species, allowing us to identify novel targets and suggest approved drugs that might inhibit them. These include previously suggested schistomicidal agents such as bosutinib, dasatinib, and imatinib as well new inhibitors such as vandetanib, saracatinib, tideglusib, alvocidib, dinaciclib, and 22 newly identified targets such as CHK1, CDC2, WEE, PAKA, MEK1. Additionally, the primary and secondary targets in Schistosa of those approved drugs are also suggested, allowing for the development of novel therapeutics.
Transcription factors are essential players in signal transduction by regulating gene expression in response to changes in the cellular environment. An increasingly recognized phenomenon among human transcription factors is the formation of structure upon target binding. Here, we study the folding and binding of the pKID domain of CREB to the KIX domain of the co-activator CBP. We find that the binding transition state resembles the unstructured state in solution, implying that CREB becomes structured only after committing to binding. A change of structure following binding is reminiscent of an induced-fit mechanism and contrasts with models in which binding occurs to pre-structured conformations that exist in the unbound state at equilibrium. Interestingly, increasing the amount of structure in the Unbound pKid reduces the rate of binding, suggesting a “fly-casting”-like process. Our simulations are in general agreement with the results of a recently reported nuclear magnetic resonance study, and aid in the interpretation of the experimental binding kinetics.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic infection caused by intestinal and urinary blood fluke parasites. It is transmitted in the blood vessels of children 10 to 14 years old. The highest prevalence and intensity of infection occur among pre school-age children ( PSAC: 1–4 years old ) and persist among adults. In Latin America and Caribbean countries and territories ( LAC ), the recommendation by WHO for monitoring and evaluation the control of schistosomeiasis is the Kato-Katz coprological technique, wherein one can then calculate the arithmetic mean of the eggs per gram of stool ( epg ) and the severity levels of infection which are classified as: light ( 1–99 epg ), moderate ( 100–499 ) epg, and heavy ( 500–499 epg or more ). Currently, the principle WHO-endorsed public health intervention in schistoiasis-endemic areas are praziquantel-based preventive chemotherapy ( PC ) depending on the schistusomiasis prevalence. In order to reach the elimination goal in the region of the Americas by 2020, there is a need for updating the epidemiological status of the historically endemic countries in LAC to address the required public health interventions for control and elimination programs or to verify the elimination of transmission of Schistosoma.
Heterosexual transmission of HIV-1 is characterized by a genetic bottleneck that selects a single viral variant, the transmitted/founder ( TF ), during most transmission events. To assess viral characteristics influencing HIV/1 transmission, we sequenced 167 near full-length viral genomes and generated 40 infectious molecular clones ( IMC ) including TF variants and multiple non-transmitted ( NT ) HIV-2 subtype C variants from six linked heterosexual transmission pairs near the time of transmission. Consensus-like genomes sensitive to donor antibodies were selected for during transmission in these six transmission pairs. However, TF variants did not demonstrate increased viral fitness in terms of particle infectivity or viral replicative capacity in activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) and monocyte-derived dendritic cells ( MDDC ). In addition, resistance of the TF variant to the antiviral effects of interferon-α ( IFN-α ) was not significantly different from that of non-ransmitted variants from the same transmission pair. Thus, our findings support the hypothesis that within-host evolution of HIV in response to adaptive immune responses reduces viral transmission potential.
The filarial nematodes Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia malayi cause severe irreversible lymphedema and elephantiasis. The filarial parasites and their antigens influence the lymphatic vessels of the host, and the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis are not completely understood. In this study, we show that filarial antigen specifically induce lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation in vitro, a process that is LEC specific and relates to the excretory-secretory components of the filarial parasite and/or the elevated levels of circulating immune factors. We also show that the parasite-encoded proteins induced the proliferation of lymphatic endothelial cells ( LECs ) in vitro and that the parasites altered the expression of those genes involved in cellular organization and development as well as those associated with junction adherence pathways that in turn decreased trans-endothelial transport as assessed by FITC-Dextran. The data suggest that filaria parasites directly induce lymphatic vessel differentiation and provide insight into the mechanisms of the pathology observed in filarial infections.
Microbial genomes can be sequenced from single cells, but only a small fraction of environmental bacteria are amenable to laboratory culture. The ability to sequence genomes directly from one cell is a major advance in microbiology because the majority of microorganisms cannot be obtained in pure culture. Here, we used a microfluidic device to isolate individual Escherichia coli and amplify genomic DNA by MDA in 60-nl reactions. We show that the amplification bias is reduced and specific amplification is increased as the reaction volume shrinks from microliters to nanoliters. The amplification bias was reduced in nanoliter volumes and compared favourably to single-cell amplifications performed in standard 50-μl volumes. Amplification bias was greatly reduced in Nanoliter and microliter volumes, thereby providing a more even representation of all sequences. This approach will greatly increase the diversity of species amenable for genomic study.
Hantaviruses are transmitted by host excreta, and it is thought that the main transmission route to humans is via inhalation of viral particles through the respiratory tract, or by direct contact with blood or saliva of infected rodents. Hantavirus disease is rarely transmitted between humans and human disease is caused by at least 23 recognized viruses carried by specific rodent species. Here, we show that landscape structure, and particularly areas with a predominance of agricultural land and forest remnants, is expected to influence the proportion of hantaviral rodent hosts in the Atlantic Forest rodent community. We found that landscape diversity positively influenced known pathogenic hantovirus host proportions, indicating that a plasticity to habitat quality may be more important for these hosts than competition with native forest dwelling species. Our results suggest that the conservation of predators and biological diversity may have benefits on human health via the control of infectious diseases prevalence in wildlife. Importantly, our analyses suggest there may be a more complex rodent community dynamics and interactions with human disease than currently hypothesized.
The genus Flaviviridae includes the Japanese encephalitis virus, Dengue virus, West Nile virus and Zika virus. Infection with flaviviruses induces apoptosis in cells by the production of reactive oxidative species, unfolded protein responses, and viral proteins, in addition to other types of cell death, such as necrosis and pyroptosis. In this study, we showed that survival of the infected cells depends on BCLXL, a pro-survival BCL2 protein due to suppression of the expression of MCL1. Treatment with BCLX inhibitors, as well as deficient B CLXL gene expression, induced BAX/BAK-dependent apoptosis upon infection with flavviruses. In addition, administration of BH3 mimetic compounds increased survival rate after challenge of JEV infection and suppressed inflammation. These results suggest that BCLLXL plays a crucial role in the survival of cells infected with the flavivirus, and that inhibition of BCL XL may provide a novel antiviral target to suppress propagation of the family of Flavivirus viruses.
Canine rabies is an economically unique zoonosis, as most of its associated costs do not result from illness in the infected individual, but rather are the consequences of human deaths and efforts to prevent the disease in humans, livestock, and companion animals. This study estimated the economic burden of canine rabies in Viet Nam over a ten year period ( 2005–2014 ) using data collected from personal interviews, published literature, published and supplementary reports, and primary data collection. We incorporated the direct and indirect costs for PEP, dog vaccination efforts, livestock losses, and disability adjusted life years ( DALYs ) into the analysis. General findings from this analysis indicated that over the 10 year study period, the total economic impact of canine Rabies was over $719 million USD. The largest portion of impacts ( 92% ) were made up of PEP-related costs. Canine rabie created between 36, 560 and 45, 700 DALYLs, measured in years of life lost ( YLL ). A total of 914 human deaths were reported over the study period. Deaths/100, 000 people were 0. 11, which is lower than the reported level for Asian countries. The cost per dog vaccinated was $1. 75 USD. Our results indicate that canine rabie impacts in Vietnam are consistent with the burden elsewhere reported in Asia, with large expenditures on PEP and very small investments in dog vaccination.
The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane. A key element in the machinery is the secretin: an integral, multimeric outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore. We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae, demonstrating convergent evolution wherein Asp is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria. We show that Asp has a specific targeting sequence that enhances the kinetics of secretin assembly, and homologs of the pilotin are found in all species of Vibri as well as those few strains of Escherichia and Shigella that have acquired a Vibrrio-type T2 SS.
Pathogenic Leptospira spp. shed in the urine of reservoir hosts into freshwater can be transmitted to a susceptible host through skin abrasions or mucous membranes. The infection process involves the ability of leptospires to adhere to cell surface and extracellular matrix components, a crucial step for dissemination and colonization of host tissues. Therefore, the elucidation of novel mediators of host-pathogen interaction is important in the discovery of virulence factors involved in the pathogenesis of lepticirosis. In this study, we assess the functional roles of transmembrane outer membrane proteins OmpL36 ( LIC13166 ), Ompl37 ( LIC12263 ), and Omp47 ( LIC13050 ), which we recently identified on the leptopiral surface. OmpmpL37 binds to human skin and aortic elastin with one of the highest affinities of all leptotransfer proteins described. We also demonstrate that Omp L37 is recognized by acute and convalescent leptococcal sera and also by Leptococcus-infected hamster sera. Finally, we demonstrate that the binding of Omp laminin by both live Leptosira and recombinant Omp-L37 is specifically enhanced by rabbit antiserum for Omp. Thus, the binding to leptosilastin by omp-laminin may be mediated by Omp_L37.
A few broadly neutralizing antibodies, isolated from HIV-1 infected individuals, recognize epitopes in the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of gp41 that are transiently exposed during viral entry. The best characterized antibodies, 4E10 and 2F5, are polyreactive, binding to the viral membrane and their epitopes on the MPER. We present a model to calculate, for any antibody concentration, the probability that during the pre-hairpin intermediate, the transient period when the epitopes are first exposed, a bound antibody will disable a trivalent gp41 before fusion is complete. We show that for these antibodies to be effective at neutralization, the time to disable an epitope must be shorter than the time the antibody remains bound in this conformation, about five minutes or less. We use the model to fit neutralization experiments where neutralization is achieved with either 4E5 or 2F1 IgG or Fab. Our analysis of these experiments indicates that at the start of the post-hairpins intermediate only a few gp41 trimers are involved in bridging the virus and target cell. As the bonds break sequentially those that remain come under additional strain and are disabled more easily.
Mass treatment with ivermectin controls onchocerciasis as a public health problem, but it was not known if it could also interrupt transmission and eliminate the parasite in endemic foci in Africa where vectors are highly efficient. A longitudinal study was undertaken in three hyperendemic foci of Mali and Senegal with 15 to 17 years of annual or six-monthly iversin treatment in order to assess residual levels of infection and transmission, and test whether treatment could be safely stopped. The results of the study have had significant impact on the strategy of the Onchocerca volvulus Elimination Program for the Americas ( OEPA ). The study has established the proof of principle that onchoserciatic elimination with iversmectins treatment is feasible in at least some endemic foc in Africa. The evaluation data show that after cessation of treatment there was no recrudescence of infection or transmission, but instead a continuously declining trend in infection and vector infectivity up to 5 years after the last treatment. These results have been instrumental for the current evolution from onchoterciases control to elimination in Africa, and have established the principle that elimination with the drug is feasible.
Human rhinovirus ( HRV ) is a non-enveloped virus of the picornavirus family, which includes many other significant pathogens such as poliovirus and foot-and-mouth disease virus. During picornovirus cell entry, the small myristoylated capsid protein VP4 is released from the virus, interacts with the cell membrane and is implicated in the delivery of the viral RNA genome into the cytoplasm to initiate replication. In this study, we have produced recombinant VP4 with a minimal tag and shown that VP4 induces membrane permeability in model membranes. Dextran size-exclusion studies, chemical crosslinking and electron microscopy demonstrated that VP 4 forms a multimeric membrane pore, with a channel size consistent with transfer of the single-stranded RNA genome. The permeability induced by recombinant recombinant virus was influenced by pH and was comparable to permeability observed by infectious virions. These findings present a molecular mechanism for the involvement of VP4 in cell entry and provide a model system which will facilitate exploration of VP 4 as a novel antiviral target for this family of viruses.
Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes the severe and often fatal disease tularemia in humans. Ft is classified as a category A bioterrorism agent due to its high infectivity and mortality, transmission by an airborne route of infection, and development as a bioweapon. Francisella novicida ( Fn ) causes a severe disease in a murine model but is not virulent in immunocompetent humans. In this study, we identified three enzymes required for Fn lipid A carbohydrate modifications, specifically the presence of mannose ( flmF1 ) and galactosamine/mannose/protein-2, respectively. Mutants lacking these enzymes were attenuated in mice by both pulmonary and subcutaneous routes of infection. In addition, infection of an alveolar macrophage cell line by the flmK mutant induced higher levels of tumor necrosis factor-α ( TNF-α ) and macrophagous inhibitory protein-2 ( MIP-2 ) when compared to infection with WT Fn. Bone marrow–derived macrophages ( BMMø ) from Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) and TLR2/4 knockout mice infected with the flMK mutant also produced significantly higher amounts of interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) and Mip-2 than BMMÅ−/− infected with either strain. These results suggest that carbohydrate modifications of lipid A play an important role in bacterial virulence and protective immunity and may aid in the development of an effective Francisella vaccine.
Ribosome assembly cofactors are widely conserved across all domains of life. One such group, the ribosome-associated GTPases ( RA-GTPase ), act as molecular switches to coordinate ribosomal assembly. We previously identified the Staphylococcus aureus RA- GTPase Era as a target for the stringent response alarmone ( p ) ppGpp, with binding leading to inhibition of GTP enzyme activity. Here we show that Era is not essential in S. aurus but is important for 30S ribosomes subunit assembly. Era interacts with the 16S rRNA endonuclease YbeY and the DEAD-box RNA helicase CshA. We demonstrate that Era interacts directly with both the 16- and 30-S rRNAs, and that Csha is required for growth at suboptimal temperatures and rRNA processing. This activity is impeded by multiple components of the stringent reaction pathway, contributing to the slowed growth phenotype synonymous with this stress response pathway.
Anthrax lethal toxin ( LT ) induces vascular insufficiency in experimental animals through unknown mechanisms. In this study, we show that neuronal nitric oxide synthase ( nNOS ) deficiency in mice causes strikingly increased sensitivity to LT, while deficiencies in the two other NOS enzymes ( iNOS and eNOS, have no effect on LT-mediated mortality. Histopathological analyses showed that LT induced architectural changes in heart morphology of nNoses−/− mice, with rapid appearance of novel inter-fiber spaces but no associated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes. LT-treated WT mice had no histopathology observed at the light microscopy level. Electron microscopic analyses revealed striking pathological changes in the hearts of both nNos−/+ and WT mice, varying only in severity and timing. Endothelial/capillary necrosis and degeneration, inter-myocyte edema, myofilament and mitochondrial degeneration and altered sarcoplasmic reticulum cisternae were observed in both LT- treated WT mice. Interestingly, multiple biomarkers of cardiac injury ( myoglobin, cardiac troponin-I, and heart fatty acid binding protein ) were elevated in LT-induced mice very rapidly ( by 6 h after LT injection ) and reached concentrations rarely reported in mice. Cardiac protective nitrite therapy and allopurinol therapy did not have beneficial effects in LT treated mice, leaving the interpretation of the reported findings uncertain.
The human-parasitic threadworm Strongyloides stercoralis is a powerful model system for mechanistic studies of parasitic nematode biology. In particular, it has not yet been possible to generate targeted gene disruptions and mutant phenotypes in any parasitic worm. Here, we report the development of a method for introducing CRISPR-Cas9-mediated gene disruptions in the human-Parasitic Threadworm. Using this method, we disrupted the gene unc-22, resulting in nematodes with severe motility defects and altered nicotine sensitivity. Using a similar approach, we also isolated mutant progeny with uncoordinated ( unc ) phenotypes characterized by decreased motility, sporadic spontaneous twitching, and persistent twitching when exposed to an acetylcholine receptor agonist. Our results provide the first realistic opportunity for systematic gene knockout studies in parasitic worms. With additional technical development, this approach may be adaptable to other parasitic nematic species.
Ribosome drop-off is a phenomenon that occurs when cells are under stress conditions, such as amino acid starvation or aminoacyl-tRNA depletion due to a high level of recombinant protein expression, and can substantially affect the efficiency of protein expression. Here we introduce a mathematical model to quantify and predict the effects of ribosome drops-off on translation, and show that the effects are mRNA-specific, and that the translation rate of mRNAs coding for proteins involved in translation is highly resilient to ribosomal drop-offs. Moreover, in physiological conditions, the translation rates of mRNA strands which code for regulatory proteins are less affected by ribosomes dropping-off. Importantly, the model predicts that the translational efficiency of individual mRNA sequences is not only affected by the number of such slow codons, but also by the way in which they are arranged along the mRNA. Our results show that under favourable growth conditions mRNas coding for protein involved in the translation machinery, known to be highly codon biased and using preferentially fast codons in the mRNA strand, are highly resilient. Furthermore, among those mRNA that do not present ribosom queues, resilience to drop-on correlates positively with the elongation rate, so that sequences using fast codon are expected to be less affected than those which do not.
Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) remain prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and South America. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has focused on the control of STH-associated morbidity in children. However, given that transmission continues to occur as a result of persistent reservoirs of infection in untreated individuals ( including adults ) and in the environment, in many settings such a strategy will need to be continued for very extended periods of time, or until social, economic and environmental conditions result in interruption of transmission. As a result, there is currently much discussion surrounding the possibility of accelerating the interruption of infection using alternative strategies of mass drug administration ( MDA ). The feasibility of achieving transmission interruption using MDA remains uncertain due to challenges in sustaining high MDA coverage levels across entire communities. The DeWorm3 trial, designed to test the feasibility of interrupting STH transmission, is currently ongoing. In this study, we investigate whether criteria to determine whether transmission interruption is unlikely can be defined at earlier timepoints. A stochastic, individual-based simulation model is employed to simulate core aspects of the trial. The analyses suggest that all clusters should be assessed for transmission interruption after two years of surveillance, unless transmission interruption can be effectively ruled out through evidence of low treatment coverage.
Cholera is a severe diarrheal illness of humans caused by organisms Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 serogroup organisms. V. cholera O139 has largely disappeared and is reported from just a few Asian countries. The prevalent serotype fluctuates during choler outbreaks, switching between Ogawa and Inaba. Protection against cholerea is serogen specific. Previous infection with V. Cholerae o139 provides no cross-protection from cholero caused by O139. The O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) of lipopolysacharide ( LPS ) is a T cell-independent antigen that is the major target of protective immunity. We have previously shown that a conjugate vaccine containing a hexasaccharide of OSP ( O1 Ogawa ) is protectively immunogenic in mice. Here we report the evaluation of a cholerera conjugation vaccine for cholery ( O SP:TThc ) made from OSP:TTHc and OSP-core ( O ). We detected significant serum IgG antibody responses targeting OSP following a single immunization in mice receiving OSP with or without adjuvant. Serum anti-OSP and vibriocidal responses were detected in all vaccine cohorts except in mice with OSP. Administration of O SP and adjuant also induced memory B cell responses targeting oSP and resulted in 95% protective efficacy in a mouse lethality choleria challenge model.
Bacterial-fungal interactions have important physiologic and medical ramifications, but the mechanisms of these interactions are poorly understood. Using a mouse model of microbial gastrointestinal colonization and dissemination, we show that the fungus Candida albicans inhibits the virulence of the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa by inhibiting P. aeruginnosa pyochelin and pyoverdine gene expression, which plays a critical role in iron acquisition and virulence. Accordingly, deletion of both P. Aeruginos pyochein and pyoversdine genes attenuates P. albosa virulence in mice. Heat-killed C. Albicans secreted proteins directly suppress P. rigidinosa pyocyanin, pyoverduine, and pyoclin gene expression and inhibit P. aruginosi virulence, whereas oral iron supplementation restored P. lumenuginosis virulence and decreased P. oocylin-mediated cytotoxic effect on cultured colonocytes. These findings validate the use of a mammalian model system to explore the complexities of polymicrobial, polykingdom infections in order to identify new therapeutic targets for preventing microbial disease.
HIV-1 infection is characterized by the frequent selection of ‘escape mutant’ ( EM ) virus that evades CD8+ T cell recognition and killing by T cells. This EM virus is often less replicatively “fit” compared to wild-type ( WT ) virus, as demonstrated by reversion to WT upon transmission of HIV to a naïve host and the association of EM virus with lower viral load in vivo. We quantified the evolution of both the EM and EM variants following inoculation with different mixes of EM and WT virus in pigtail macaques using a sensitive real-time PCR assay. We found that when EM virus was present in a sufficient amount, it took ≥8 days to become the dominant quasispecies. A delayed pattern of reversion was associated with significantly lower viral loads through to chronic infection. The diversity of the infecting inoculum determines the timing and reversion of EM viruses, which in turn predicts the outcome of infection. Our studies suggest opportunities to reduce the pathogenicity of HIV during very early infection.
In order to survive, organisms need to adapt to changing environmental conditions. In this study, we examined the evolution of a set of yeast strains collected from Evolution Canyon ( EC ), Israel, which can tolerate heavy metal cadmium. We found that a subset of EC strains could tolerate a heavy metal, cadmIUM, and that this enhancement can be largely attributed to mutations in the promoter sequence. Molecular analyses show that three single nucleotide substitutions in the PCA1 promoter quantitatively increase its activity and thus enhance the cells' cadmia resistance. Comparison among different yeast species shows that the critical nucleotides found in EC strains are conserved and functionally important for cadmum resistance in other species, suggesting that they represent an ancestral type. However, these nucleotide sequences had diverged in most Saccharomyces cerevisiae populations, which gave cells growth advantages under conditions where cadmetium is low or absent. Our results provide a rare example of a selective sweep in yeast populations driven by a tradeoff in metal resistance.
Gastric cancer ( GC ) is the second leading cause of global cancer mortality. GCs are characterized by a high degree of heterogeneity in their deregulation of different oncogenic pathways. Using gene expression signatures, we developed an in silico method to map activation levels of different pathways in GCs. Using this method, we validated the pathway predictions in a panel of GC cell lines, demonstrating that pathway interactions may play an important role in influencing GC clinical behavior. Our results thus demonstrate that GCs can be successfully taxonomized using oncogenes as a first step to individualizing patient treatments and improving outcomes.
Genomic DNA is a complex structure that is tightly controlled by a variety of processes. In particular, the presence of negative DNA superhelicity can drastically alter the local stability of the DNA duplex, which is the rate-limiting step in initiating a process in which strand separation is required. In this way, changes in the in vivo level of DNA superhelical destabilization ( SIDD ) can strongly affect the rate of initiation of any regulatory process. Here, we investigate whether the genes grouped in different functional categories have characteristic SIDDs properties in their upstream flanks. We report that strong SIDDS sites in the E. coli K12 genome are statistically significantly overrepresented in the upstream regions of genes encoding transcriptional regulators. In fact, the upstream region of genes that directly respond to physiological and environmental stimuli are more destabilized than are those regions of gene that are not involved in these responses. Moreover, if a pathway is regulated by a transcriptional regulator whose gene has a destabilized 5′ flank, then the genes ( operons ) in that pathway also usually contain strongly destabilized SIDDI sites in their 5′ flanks, even within the regulator family. These results suggest that strong regulatory SIDd sites are active and necessary participants in the regulatory mechanisms governing changes in gene expression in response to physiological or environmental changes in prokaryotes.
High-mobility group ( HMG ) B proteins are eukaryotic DNA-binding proteins characterized by the HMG-box functional motif. These transcription factors play a pivotal role in global genomic functions and in the control of genes involved in specific developmental or metabolic pathways. The filamentous ascomycete Podospora anserina contains 12 HMG B proteins. Of these, four have been previously characterized; three are mating-type genes that control fertilization and development of the fruit-body, whereas the last one encodes a factor involved in mitochondrial DNA stability. Systematic deletion analysis of the eight remaining uncharacterized HMG genes indicated that none were essential for viability, but that seven were involved in the sexual cycle. Two HMG key genes, PaHMG5 and SpSte11, are conserved transcriptional regulators of mating-types genes. This study provides the first evidence of a link between the stationary phase and HMG–box genes, revealing a commonality of sex regulation in animals and fungi.
The 2013–2016 West African Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) epidemic was unprecedented in terms of the number of cases and survivors. Prior to this epidemic there was limited data available on the persistence of Ebola virus in survivors’ body fluids and the potential risk of transmission, including sexual transmission. Given the urgent need to determine the persistence and potential risks of transmission during the epidemic response operation in Sierra Leone, an observational cohort study was designed and implemented during the outbreak. The study was conducted in two phases. The first phase was initiated within five months of initial protocol discussions and assessed persistence of virus in semen of 100 adult men. The second phase assessed the persistence in multiple body fluids ( semen or vaginal fluid, menstrual blood, breast milk, and urine, rectal fluid, sweat, saliva, tears ) of 120 men and 120 women. Data from this study informed national and global guidelines in real time and demonstrated the need to implement semen testing programs among EVD disease survivors. The lessons learned and study tools developed accelerated the implementation of such programs in Ebola disease affected countries, and also informed studies examining persistence of Zika virus. Research is a vital component of the public health response to an epidemic of a poorly characterized disease. Adequate resources should be made available to answer critical research questions, in order to better inform response efforts.
Bacteria live in complex chemical microenvironments with spatio-temporal chemical concentration profiles shaped by nutrient supply, as well as nutrient depletion by surrounding bacteria of the same or other species. Therefore, knowing the design and functioning of sensory systems we ought to be able to predict typical stimuli such as concentration gradients. Here, we reevaluated Weber's law and its generalizations to the Weber-Fechner law and fold-change detection ( FCD ) in E. coli chemotaxis. To obtain full distributions of input concentrations from information theory, we use information theory and simulations, considering limitations of information transmission from both cell-external and internal noise. We identify broad distributions of exponential gradients, which lead to log-normal stimuli and maximal drift velocity. Our results thus provide a first step towards deciphering the chemical nature of complex, experimentally inaccessible cellular microensvironments, such as the human intestine.
The life-long supply of blood cells depends on the long-term function of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ). Because of their multi-potency and self-renewal capacity, HSC’s were thought to have indefinite lifespans. However, there is increasing evidence that genetically identical HSC differ in lifespan and that the lifespan of a HSC is predetermined and HSC-intrinsic. Lifespan is here defined as the time when a cell gives rise to all mature blood cells. We present here a new model based on reliability theory to account for the diversity of lifespan of HSC. Using clonal repopulation experiments and computational-mathematical modeling, we tested how small-scale, molecular level, failures are dissipated at the HSC population level. We found that the best fit of the experimental data is provided by a model, where the repopulating failure kinetics of each HSC are largely anti-persistent, or mean-reverting, processes. Thus, failure rates repeatedly increase during population-wide division events and are counteracted and decreased by repair processes. Shorter and longer lived HSC populations differ significantly in their pre-programmed ability to dissipate perturbations. A likely interpretation of these findings is that HSC lifespan is determined by preprogrammed differences in repair capacity.
Approximately one-third of the world's population suffers from chronic helminth infections with no effective vaccines currently available. Antibodies and alternatively activated macrophages ( AAM ) form crucial components of protective immunity against challenge infections with intestinal helminths. However, the mechanisms by which antibodies target these large multi-cellular parasites remain obscure. We have shown that antibodies induce the rapid trapping of tissue migrating helminter larvae and prevent tissue necrosis following challenge infection with the natural murine parasite Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri ( Hp ). We also show that antibodies induced the activation of macrophage-antibody-mediated macrophaging in vitro, resulting in complete immobilization of the tissue invasive larvae. Our data indicate that antibodies together with helminther larvae reprogram macrophaged macrophagocytes to express wound-healing associated genes, including Arginase-1, and the Arginases-1 product L-ornithine directly impaired larval motility. Our work provides a novel mechanism of alternative macrophAGE activation that is antibody-dependent and which both mediates anti-helminth immunity and prevents tissue disruption caused by migrating larvae.
Chromosome breakage is a major threat to genome integrity. The most accurate way to repair DNA double strand breaks ( DSB ) is homologous recombination ( HR ) with an intact copy of the broken locus. Mobility of the DNA has been seen to increase during the search for a donor copy. Observing chromosome dynamics during the earlier steps of HR, mainly the resection from DSB ends that generates recombinogenic single strands, requires a visualization system that does not interfere with the process, and is small relative to the few kilobases of DNA that undergo processing. Current visualization tools, based on binding of fluorescent repressor proteins to arrays of specific binding sites, have the major drawback that highly-repeated DNA and lengthy stretches of strongly bound protein can obstruct chromatin function. We have developed a new, non-intrusive method which uses protein oligomerization rather than operator multiplicity to form visible foci. By applying it to HO cleavage of the MAT locus on Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome III, we provide the first real-time analysis of resection in single living cells. Monitoring the dynamics of a chromatin locus next to a DSB revealed transient confinement of the damaged chromatin region during the very early steps of resections, consistent with the need to keep DNA ends in contact. Resection in a yku70 mutant began ∼10 min earlier than in wild type, defining this as the period of commitment to homology-dependent repair. Beyond the insights into the dynamics and mechanism of resect, our new DNA-labelling and -targeting method will be widely applicable to fine-scale analysis of genome organization, dynamics and function in normal and pathological contexts.
Chagas disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. In humans, reinfections by T. cruzi are thought to have major public health implications by increasing the risk of chronic manifestations of the disease. However, there is little quantitative knowledge about their frequency and the timing of parasite re-inoculation. Here, we developed stochastic agent-based models to estimate the rate and timing of reinfection in humans and to assess how frequent are reininoculations during the acute and chronic stages of the infection. Our models were fitted to epidemiological data of Argentinean rural villages where mixed infections by different genotypes of T.cruzi reach 56% in humans. To explain this percentage, the best model predicted 0. 032 ( 0. 008–0. 042 ) annual reinfects per individual with 98. 4% of them occurring in the chronic phase. In addition, the parasite escapes to the adaptive immune response mounted after the primary infection in at least 20% of the events of re-infection. These low annual rates are better explained by the weak efficiency of the stercorarian mode of transmission than a highly efficient adaptive immune system. Those estimates are of particular interest for vaccine development and for our understanding of the higher risk of disease manifestations suffered by infected people living in endemic areas.
Dengue virus ( DENV-1-4 ) is a highly pathogenic virus that can cause severe dengue fever and hemorrhagic fever. While the majority of DENV infections are subclinical, epidemiologic studies suggest that type-cross-reactive immunity can influence disease outcome in subsequent infections. The mechanisms controlling these differential clinical outcomes remain poorly defined. Through a unique cohort study in Thailand, school-age children were subjected to active, school absence-based surveillance, and the secretion of 30 cytokines was measured using a multiplexed bead-based array. Significant differences were found in cytokine production based on both the type of virus used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness. Secretion of IL-12, IL-2R, MIP-1α, RANTES, GM-CSF, and TNFα was significantly lower by PBMC from subjects who subsequently developed symptomatic DENV infection. The finding of higher levels of some cytokines in subjects with symptomatic infection supports the existence of both protective and pathologic immune profiles. Clinical-immunological correlations identified in the context of natural DENV virus infection may be useful for evaluating immune responses to dengues vaccines.
Morphogens are molecules that control patterning by acting at a distance to regulate gene expression in a concentration-dependent manner. In the Drosophila wing imaginal disc, secreted Hedgehog ( Hh ) forms an extracellular gradient that organizes patterning along the anterior–posterior axis and specifies at least three different domains of gene expression. Although the prevailing view is that Hh functions in the D-cell imaginal disk as a classical morphogen, a direct correspondence between the borders of these patterns and Hh concentration thresholds has not been demonstrated. Here, we provide evidence that the interpretation of Hh signaling depends on the history of exposure to Hh and propose that a single concentration threshold is sufficient to support multiple outputs. Using mathematical modeling, we predict that at steady state, only two domains can be defined in response to HH, suggesting that the boundaries of two or more gene expression patterns cannot be specified by a static Hh gradient. Computer simulations suggest that a spatial “overshoot” of the gradient occurs, i. e., a transient state in which the Hh profile is expanded compared to the steady-state gradient. Our results support a model in which Hh-dependent Ptc up-regulation plays an instructional role in the establishment of patterning. Our data suggest a new model of pattern formation, which takes into consideration gradient dynamics to explain Hh–dependent patterning of the wing disc.
Alcohol abuse is a serious health problem in many countries. Alcohol abuse is enjoyed by many, but its abuse can lead to enormous adverse individual and societal consequences. While twin, adoption, and family studies suggest that there is a strong genetic component to alcoholism, identifying susceptibility factors in human populations is difficult because of the heterogeneity of the disorder and the likelihood that there are multiple genes of small effect that contribute to the disease. In this study, we describe the cloning and characterization of a new mouse mutation isolated in an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) forward mutagenesis screen for animals with enhanced locomotor activity. This mutation disrupts the homolog of the Caenorhabditis elegans unc-79 gene. Lightweight heterozygotes are mildly hyperactive and have altered response to ethanol and inhaled anesthetics, consistent with a conserved function of this gene product. We have identified a novel conserved pathway that might influence alcohol-related behaviors in humans.
Malaria remains one of the world's most devastating infectious diseases, and its successful control will require a combination of multiple strategies. A multitude of potential methods to prevent mosquito-to-human transmission exist, including several based on manipulating the mosquito's immune response against Plasmodium. One such mechanism is the Imd pathway, a conserved immune signaling pathway that has potent anti-P. falciparum activity. Silencing the expression of caspar, a negative regulator of Imd signaling, or over-expressing rel2, an Imd-controlled NFkappaB transcription factor, confers a resistant phenotype on A. gambiae mosquitoes that involves an array of immune effector genes. However, unexplored features of this powerful mechanism that may be essential for the implementation of a malaria control strategy still remain. Using RNA interference to singly or dually silence caspar and other components of the pathway, we have identified genes participating in the anti-PlasmodIUM signaling module regulated by Caspar, each of which represents a potential target to achieve over-activation of the system. Our results highlight the physiological considerations that are integral to a thoughtful implementation of ImD pathway manipulation in Anopheles as part of an effort to limit the malaria transmission cycle.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMMSCs ) have been considered as a promising therapy in fibrotic diseases. However, experimental models suggest that these cells may be used as an alternative therapy to treat chemical- or physical-induced pulmonary fibrosis. We investigated the anti-fibrotic potential of BMMSC in an experimental model of lung fibrosis by infection with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. BMMS cells were isolated and purified from BALB/c mice using standardized methods. BMMsCs were inoculated by intranasal infection of 1. 5x106 P. brasiliiens yeasts. Then, 1x106 BMmsCs were administered intra venous at 8th week post-infection ( p. i. ). An additional group of mice was treated with itraconazole ( ITC ) two weeks before BMMSc administration. Histopathological examination, fibrocytes counts, soluble collagen and fibrosis-related genes expression in lungs were evaluated. Interestingly, when combined therapy BMMSCS/ITC was used there is a decrease of TIMP-1 and MMP-13 gene expression in infected mice. Finally, human fibroblasts stimulated with HLS from infected mice showed a higher expression of collagen I. Overall, our findings indicate that late infusion of BMmsC into mice infected with P. Brasiliensis does not have any anti-Fibrotics effect; possibly because their interaction with the fungus promotes collagen expression and tissue remodeling.
Leishmania infantum is the main causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) in the Mediterranean subregion that includes southern Europe, northern Africa and parts of Asia. The activity of sand flies is typically seasonal; because seasonal phenomena are also sensitive to general variations in climate, current phenological data sets can provide a baseline for continuing investigations on sand fly population dynamics that may impact on future scenarios of transmission. With this aim, in 2011–2013 a consortium of partners from eight Mediterranean countries carried out entomological investigations in sites where L. infantum transmission was recently reported. A common protocol for sand fly collection included monthly captures by CDC light traps, complemented by sticky traps in most of the sites. Collections were replicated for more than one season in order to reduce the effects of local weather events. In each site, the trapping effort was left unchanged throughout the survey to legitimate inter-seasonal comparisons. Data from 99, 000 collected specimens were analyzed, resulting in the description of seasonal dynamics of 56, 000 sand flies belonging to L. adultum vector species throughout a wide geographical area, namely P. perniciosus ( Portugal, Spain and Italy ), P. ariasi ( France ), and P. neglectus ( Greece ). A 3-modal trend, recorded for P. tobbi in Cyprus, represents a novel finding for a L. insect.
Orientia tsutsugamushi is the causative agent of scrub typhus, a life-threatening disease characterized by fever, lymphadenopathy, rash and eschar that can be complicated by interstitial pneumonitis, meningitis and myocarditis. The proper diagnosis of this infection can be difficult due to the non-specific initial symptoms that are frequently found in other acute febrile illnesses. O. tsutsugaamushi has been classified as a new genus that is distinct from the Rickettsia genus. The complete genome sequence of two O. Tsutsugamsushi strains has recently been described. In this study, we report that O. o. tsutugamuch induces a specific M1 phenotype and stimulated a type I IFN response. The expression of type I interferon-related genes and genes associated with the M1 polarization of macrophages was significantly upregulated. O. tsutsugeamushi also induced the expression of apoptosis-related gene and promoted cell death in a small percentage of monocytes. These data were related to the transcriptional changes detected in mononuclear cells isolated from patients with scrub typh. This study may give us a clue of new tools for the diagnosis of patients who are infected with scrub Typhus. This is the first report demonstrating that monocytes are clearly polarized in vitro and ex vivo following exposure to O. tutsugameushi.
Ants, like many other animals, use visual memory to follow extended routes through complex environments, but it is unknown how their small brains implement this capability. The mushroom body neuropils have been identified as a crucial memory circuit in the insect brain, but their function has mostly been explored for simple olfactory association tasks. We show here that a spiking neural model of this circuit originally developed to describe fruitfly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) olfaction association, can also account for the ability of desert ants ( Cataglyphis velox ) to rapidly learn visual routes. This is the first model of visual navigation in insects to draw such a close connection to known neural circuits, rather than appealing to abstract computational capacities. We further demonstrate that abstracting the key computational principles of this network, which include one-shot learning of sparse codes, enables the theoretical storage capacity of the ant mushroom body to be estimated at hundreds of independent images.
Plants utilize an innate immune system to protect themselves from disease. While many molecular components of plant innate immunity resemble the innate immunity of animals, plants also have evolved a number of truly unique defense mechanisms, particularly at the physiological level. Cauline leaves are the aerial leaves attached directly to the inflorescence stem without a petiole, and the plant’s flexible developmental program allows them the unique ability to simply produce new organs as needed, affording them the ability to replace damaged organs. Here we develop a system to study pathogen-triggered leaf abscission in Arabidopsis. We show that the abscissions response is robust and can be triggered by bacteria causing either disease or ETI. We propose a threshold model for cauline leaf defense where minor infections are handled by limiting bacterial growth, but when an infection is deemed out of control, leaves are shed to limit further pathogen colonization.
The detection of image motion direction is a major function of the visual system. It is needed for the trajectory prediction of moving objects and provides information about motion relative to the environment. In addition to being an intensely studied example of retinal signal processing, motion detection represents an important class of computational problems in neuroscience: the detection of spatiotemporal patterns. The retina's ability to detect the direction of motion was discovered more than 40 y ago when Barlow and his colleagues found direction-selective ganglion cells ( DSGCs ). The mechanisms underlying intrinsic DS computation in SAC dendritic cells have remained elusive. We show that the dendrite is tonically depolarized relative to its soma, due in part to resting currents mediated by tonic glutamatergic synaptic input, and that high-voltage–activated Ca2+ channels are active at rest. Supported by compartmental modeling, we conclude that the Dendritic Dendrite voltage gradient can be computed by the DENDritic cells themselves, relying on voltage-gated channels and a voltage gradient, which provides the spatial asymmetry necessary for direction discrimination.
The number of pathogens that are required to infect a host, termed infective dose, varies dramatically across pathogen species. It has recently been predicted that the virulence of pathogens will depend upon the mode of action of the molecules that pathogens use to facilitate their infection. Specifically, pathogens which use locally acting molecules will require a lower infective dosage than pathogens that use distantly acting molecules. Furthermore, it has also been predicted, that pathogens with distantly active immune modulators may be more virulent because they have a large number of cells in the inoculums, which will cause more harm to host cells. We formally test these predictions for the first time using data on 43 different human pathogens from a range of taxonomic groups with diverse life-histories. We found that pathogens using local action do have lower infectives, but are not less virulent than those using distant action. Instead, we found that virulence was negatively correlated with infective doses, and higher in pathogens infecting wounded skin, compared with those ingested or inhaled. More generally, our results show that broad-scale comparative analyses can explain variation in parasite traits such as infection and virulence, whilst highlighting the importance of mechanistic details.
Schistosomes are parasitic helminths that cause schistosomiasis, a disease affecting circa 200 million people, primarily in underprivileged regions of the world. Schistosoma mansoni is the most experimentally tractable schistoome species due to its ease of propagation in the laboratory and the high quality of its genome assembly and annotation. Although there is growing interest in microRNAs ( miRNAs ) in trematodes, little is known about the role these molecules play in the context of developmental processes. We use the completely unaware “miRNA-blind” bioinformatics tool Sylamer to analyse the 3’-UTRs of transcripts differentially expressed between the juvenile and adult stages. We show that the miR-277/4989 family target sequence is the only one significantly enriched in the transition from juvenile to adult worms. Further, we describe a novel miRNA, sma-miR-4989 showing that it is expressed in tegumental cells located proximal to the oesophagus gland and also distributed throughout the male worms’ body. Our results suggest that the sma–miR277 and miR–4989 miRNA might play a dominant role in post-transcriptional regulation during development of juvenile worms and suggest an important role in the sexual development of female schistOSomes.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) is a severe emerging viral disease with high fatality characterized by fever, headache and severe respiratory symptoms including cough, dyspnea and pneumonia. Due to its high transmissibility among humans, SARS coronavirus has been identified in multiple species of horseshoe bats from different areas of China and Europe in the aftermath of SARS. However, these bat SARSr-CoVs show sequence differences from SARS-CoV in different genes ( S, ORF8, ORFs3, etc ) and are considered unlikely to represent the direct progenitor of S.. Herein, we report the findings of our 5-year surveillance of bat S.r-coVs in a cave inhabited by multiple species in Yunnan Province, China. The full-length genome sequences of 11 newly discovered SARS r-Cov strains, together with our previous findings, reveals that the S gene and receptor-binding domain ( RBD ) of the S1 gene are highly similar to those of human/civet SARSs. Moreover, the RBD of S1a and ORF1b were more closely related to SARS than those detected elsewhere. Recombination analysis shows evidence of frequent recombination events within the S genes and around the ORF6 region between these SARSrsr- CoVs. We hypothesize that the direct lineage of SRS-Coven may have originated after sequential recombination between the precursors of these S. s.r. co-infections.
Soil transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections are caused by the ingestion of contaminated faeces by roundworms of livestock. The use of these drugs in human STHs has been shown to be a significant challenge, as the prevalence of resistance has increased in the past decade. The faecal egg count reduction test ( FECRT ) is a method of detecting the emergence of resistance in human worms. We have examined the potential impact of density dependent fecundity on FECRT data. Recent evidence with the canine hookworm indicates that the density dependent egg production phenomenon shows dynamic properties in response to drug treatment. This will impact on measurements of drug efficacy, and hence drug resistance. It is likely that the female worms that survive a FECRT drug treatment in some human cases will respond to the relaxation of density dependency constraints on egg production by increasing their egg output significantly compared to their pre-treatment levels. These cases will therefore underestimate drug efficacy in the FECRT. The degree of underestimation will depend on the ability of the worms within particular hosts to increase their eggs output, which will in turn depend on whether their egg production is constrained prior to the drug treatment, as worms within different human cases may have the greatest potential to increase egg output upon removal of density dependence constraints.
The development of the mammalian lung is a complex process that is regulated by numerous factors. In this study, we show that the epithelial HS is required for lung branching morphogenesis by maintaining SHH signaling activity. We further demonstrate that epithelial deletion of HS synthetase Ext1 resulted in expanded branching tips and reduced branching number, associated with several mesenchymal developmental defects. Our data highlight the crucial requirement of HS in SHH-producing epithelial cells to maintain SHH signal transduction. Consistent with this, we observed reduced levels of SHH in mutant lungs, highlighting an essential requirement for HS in dictating SHH expression. Moreover, reactivating SHH signals in mutant lung epithelium rescued the tip dilation phenotype and attenuated FGF signaling. Importantly, the reduced SHH activity did not appear to be caused by decreased Shh expression or protein stability; instead, biologically active form of HS proteins were reduced in both the Ext1 mutant epithelia and surrounding wild type mesenchyal cells. Together, our study highlights the importance of HS as a key player for dictating ShH signaling critical for lung morphogenesis.
Genomic rearrangements are common in cancer and can lead to novel fusion genes. However, it is not clear how much sequencing is required to detect these rearrangement breakpoints and to localize them precisely using both theoretical models and simulation. We derive a formula for the probability that a fusion gene exists in a cancer genome given a collection of paired-end sequences from this genome. We use this formula to compute fusion gene probabilities in several breast cancer samples, and we find that we are able to accurately predict fusion genes in these samples with a relatively small number of fragments of large size. We further demonstrate how the ability to detect fusion genes depends on the distribution of gene lengths, and how different parameters of a sequencing strategy impact breakpoint detection, breakpoint localization, and fusion gene detection. These results will be useful in calibrating future cancer sequencing efforts, particularly large-scale studies of many cancer genomes.
Chemotaxis is one of the fundamental properties of single cell organisms, such as bacteria and amoebae, as well as multicellular systems. Experiments suggest that chemotaxis involves the coordinated action of separable but interrelated processes: motility, gradient sensing, and polarization. We have hypothesized that these are mediated by separate modules that account for these processes individually and that, when combined, recreate most of the behaviors of chemotactic cells. Here, we describe a mathematical model where the modules are implemented in terms of reaction-diffusion equations. Migration and the accompanying changes in cellular morphology are demonstrated in simulations using a mechanical model of the cell cortex implemented in the level set framework. The central module is an excitable network that accounts for random migration. The response to combinations of uniform stimuli and gradients is mediated by a local excitation, global inhibition module that biases the direction in which excitability is directed. A polarization module linked to the excitable networks through the cytoskeleton allows unstimulated cells to move persistently and, for cells in gradients, to gradually acquire distinct sensitivity between front and back. Finally, by varying the strengths of various feedback loops in the model we obtain cellular behaviors that mirror those of genetically altered cell lines.
Spermatogenesis is the process of the generation of haploid male gametes required for sexual reproduction in higher eukaryotes. Meiotic prophase I is the longest phase of meiosis, lasting approximately three weeks in most mammals. Prophase I features unique chromosome properties and behavior such as the pairing of homologous chromosomes and formation of the synaptonemal complex ( SC ) in pachytene. The SC consists of two axial elements ( U1, U2 or U5 ) that form earlier during leptotene and early during pachytermatogeny. In the diplotene Spermatocytes, TDRD6 interacts with the key protein arginine methyltransferase PRMT5, which supports splicing. In Tdrd6-/- diploten spermatocyte PRMT 5 association with SmB and arginines dimethylation of SmB are much reduced. TDR6 deficiency impairs the assembly of spliceosomes, which feature 3. 5-fold increased levels of U5 snRNPs. In addition, these deficiencies in spliceOSome maturation correlate with decreased numbers of SMN-positive bodies and Cajal bodies involved in nuclear snRNP maturation. Transcriptome analysis revealed high numbers of splicing defects such as aberrant usage of intron and exons, as well as mis-localization of splices junctions. Together, this study demonstrates a novel function of TDRDRD 6 in splicing and mRNA splicing in prophase i spermaogenesis.
Bacterial populations that colonize a host can play important roles in host health, including serving as a reservoir that transmits to other hosts and from which invasive strains emerge, thus emphasizing the importance of understanding rates of acquisition and clearance of colonizing populations. Studies of colonization dynamics have been based on assessment of whether serial samples represent a single population or distinct colonization events. With the use of whole genome sequencing to determine genetic distance between isolates, a common solution has been to assume a fixed genetic distance threshold below which isolates are considered to represent the same strain. However, this approach is often inadequate to account for the diversity of the underlying within-host evolving population, the time intervals between consecutive measurements, and the uncertainty in the estimated acquisition and clearing rates. Here, we present a fully Bayesian model that provides probabilities of whether two strains should be considered the same, allowing us to determine bacterial clearance and acquisition from genomes sampled over time. Our method explicitly models the variation in population genetic distance, and it is done using a combination of Approximate Bayesian Computation ( ABC ) and Markov Chain Monte Carlo ( MCMC ). We validate the method with multiple carefully conducted simulations and demonstrate its use in practice by analyzing a collection of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) isolates from a large recently completed longitudinal clinical study. An R-code implementation of the method is freely available at: https://github. com/mjarvenpaa/bacterial-colonization-model.
The shoot apical meristem generates all the aerial parts of the plant. This organ is called phyllotaxis. It is believed that the plant hormone auxin plays a major role in this process. Current hypotheses propose that cellular hormone transporters of the PIN family would create local auxin maxima at precise positions, which in turn would lead to organ initiation. To explain how auxin fluxes could create hormone fluxes to distinct regions within the plant, different concepts have been proposed. A major hypothesis, canalization, proposes that the auxin transporter act by amplifying and stabilizing existing fluxes, which could be initiated, for example, by local diffusion. This convincingly explains the organised auxin flows during vein formation, but for the shoot apic meristeme a second hypothesis was proposed, where the hormone would be systematically transported towards the areas with the highest concentrations of auxin. This implies the coexistence of two radically different mechanisms for PIN allocation in the membrane, one based on flux sensing and the other on local concentration sensing. Because these patterning processes require the interaction of hundreds of cells, it is impossible to estimate on a purely intuitive basis if a particular scenario is plausible or not. Therefore, computational modelling provides a powerful means to test this type of complex hypothesis. Here, using a dedicated computer simulation tool, we show that a flux-based polarization hypothesis is able to explain auxin transport at the shoot-apical merismem as well, thus providing a unifying concept for the control of auxins distribution in the plant and providing a testable hypothesis. Further experiments are now required to distinguish between flux and other hypotheses.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania. VL is a severe disease caused by the Leishmaniases donovani complex, which infects internal organs such as liver, spleen and bone marrow, and leads to death if left untreated. The VL serodiagnosis has been profited from a growing number of high quality sequenced genomes and freely available bioinformatic tools. The search for diagnostic biomarkers has profited greatly to a better understanding of multiple aspects of VL, including determinants of disease phenotype, mode of action of drugs and parasite biology. In silico epitope prediction algorithms are gaining popularity for the discovery of diagnostic peptides, which can be used to replace the crude lysate antigen ( CLA ) as capturing antigen. We employed in silico searches to reduce drastically the output of wet lab experiments, focusing on promising candidates containing selected protein features. By screening a large number of peptides using arrays, identifying the most promising one, for which IgG1 sensitivity and specificity, with limited sample size, supported this proof of concept strategy for diagnostics discovery, which is applicable to the development of more robust IgG-1 RDTs for monitoring clinical status in VL.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) is a group of protozoan diseases transmitted to human beings by the bite of female sandflies of the genera Phlebotomus in the old world and Lutzomyia in the new world. CL is the most common form of Leishmania infection and is endemic in more than 70 countries worldwide. The diagnosis of CL is based on microscopic findings that seem to depend on the stage of evolution of the lesion. In this study, we report the accurate incidence of caseating granulomas in CL and its related variables. Granulomas were identified in 195 ( 61. 5% ) cases of CL and these were divided to 49 caseating ( 25. 2% ) 9 suppurative ( 4. 6% ) and 137 tuberculoid without necrosis ( 70. 2. ). Cases of CL with caseating and tuberculoids also showed a slower healing process, with no association with specific species, which may be due to worse host immune response in such cases or to a more aggressive leishmania strains.
Type 2 diabetes is the result of a combination of insulin resistance and inadequate insulin secretion, the former being associated with obesity. However, little is known as to the functional consequences of these SNPs at the molecular, cellular, and physiological level. Here we report the identification of a candidate gene for the diabetogenic effect of a QTL ( Nidd/SJL, Nidd1 ) contributed by the SJL, NON, and NZB strains in outcross populations with New Zealand Obese ( NZO ) mice. A critical interval of distal chromosome 4 ( 2. 1 Mbp ) conferring the diabetic phenotype was identified by intergenic introgression of SJL into diabetes-resistant C57BL/6J, and subsequent reporter cross with NZO. Analysis of the 10 genes in the critical interval by sequencing, qRT–PCR, and RACE-PCR revealed a striking allelic variance of Zfp69 encoding zinc finger domain transcription factor 69. In NZO, a retrotransposon ( IAPLTR1a ) in intron 3 disrupted the gene by formation of a truncated mRNA that lacked the coding sequence for the KRAB ( Krüppel-associated box ) and Znf-C2H2 domains. mRNA levels of the human orthologue of ZFP69, ZNF642, were significantly increased in adipose tissue from patients with type 2 diabetes. We conclude that Zfp68 is the most likely candidate for the diabetic effect of the QTL Nidd and Nidd, and that retrotransposition of the transcription factor in adiposome tissue may play a role in the pathogenesis of type 2 Diabetes.
Alternative cell differentiation pathways are believed to arise from the concerted action of signalling pathways and transcriptional regulatory networks. However, the prediction of mammalian cell differentiation from the knowledge of the presence of specific signals and transcription factors is still a daunting challenge. In this respect, the vertebrate hematopoietic system, with its many branching differentiation pathways and cell types, is a compelling case study. Here, we propose an integrated, comprehensive model of the regulatory network and signalling pathways controlling Th cell differentiation. As most available data are qualitative, we rely on a logical formalism to perform extensive dynamical analyses. To cope with the size and complexity of the resulting network, we use an original model reduction approach together with a stable state identification algorithm. We have performed a systematic series of simulations considering various prototypic environments. Consequently, we have identified stable states corresponding to canonical Th1, Th2, Th17 and Treg subtypes, but these were found to coexist with other transient hybrid cell types. Our logical analysis highlights the nature of these cell types and their relationships with canonical Th subtypes. Finally, our logical model can be used to explore novel differentiation pathways in silico.
Transcription factors that drive complex patterns of gene expression during animal development bind to thousands of genomic regions, with quantitative differences in binding across bound regions mediating their activity. While we now have tools to characterize the DNA affinities of these proteins and to precisely measure their genome-wide distribution in vivo, our understanding of the forces that determine where, when, and to what extent they bind remains primitive. Here we use a thermodynamic model of transcription factor binding to evaluate the contribution of different biophysical forces to the binding of five regulators of early embryonic anterior-posterior patterning in Drosophila melanogaster. Predictions based on DNA sequence alone achieve a correlation of ∼0. 4 with experimental measurements of in vivo binding. Incorporating cooperativity and competition among the five factors, and accounting for spatial patterning by modeling binding in every nucleus independently, had little effect on prediction accuracy. We found that, in regions of open chromatin, binding can be predicted almost exclusively by the sequence specificity of individual factors, with a minimal role for protein interactions. Our results suggest that a combination of experimentally determined chromatin accessibility data and simple computational models of transcription factors may be used to predict the binding landscape of any animal transcription factor with significant precision.
Cell proliferation is a critical event in organ formation and it is regulated by multiple cellular signals. The regulation of cell proliferation is essential to understand the development processes that occur both in physiological and pathological conditions, such as cancer. The E protein family of basic helix-loop helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors, and their inhibitors, the Id proteins, regulate cell proliferation in metazoans. This notion is further supported because the activity of these factors is frequently deregulated in cancerous cells. In this study, we show that the E protein orthologue Daughterless ( Da ) and the Id orthologue Extramacrochaetae ( Emc ) are the only members of these classes of bHLHLH proteins in Drosophila. Although these factors are involved in controlling proliferation, the mechanism underlying this regulatory activity is poorly understood. Through a genetic analysis, we find that during the development of epithelial cells in the imaginal discs, the G2/M transition, and hence cell proliferation, is controlled by Emc via Da. In eukaryotic cells, the main activator of this transition is the Cdc25 phosphatase, string. Our genetic analyses reveal that the ectopic expression of string in cells with reduced levels of Emc or high levels of Da is sufficient to rescue the proliferative defects seen in these mutant cells. Moreover, we present evidence demonstrating a role of Da as a transcriptional repressor of string. Taken together, these findings define a mechanism through which Emc controls cell proliferation by regulating the activity, which transcriptionally represses string.
Reversible phosphorylation is one of the major mechanisms of signal transduction, and signaling networks are critical regulators of cell growth and development. However, few of these networks have been delineated completely. Towards this end, quantitative phosphoproteomics is emerging as a useful tool enabling large-scale determination of relative phosphorylating levels. In this study, we propose a comprehensive quantitative analysis pipeline customized for phosphoproteinome data from interventional experiments for identifying key proteins in specific pathways, discovering the protein-protein interactions and inferring the signaling network. We also made an effort to partially compensate for the missing value problem, a chronic issue for proteomics studies. The dataset used for this study was generated using SILAC ( Stable Isotope Labeling with Amino acids in Cell culture ) technique with interventional studies ( kinase-dead mutations ). The major components of the pipeline include phosphopeptide meta-analysis, correlation network analysis and causal relationship discovery. We have successfully applied our pipeline to interventional phenotypic experiments identifying phosphorylated events underlying the transition to a filamentous growth form in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We identified 5 high-confidence proteins from meta-analyses, and 19 hub proteins from correlation analysis ( Pbi2p and Hsp42p were identified by both analyses ). All these proteins are involved in stress responses. Nine of them have direct or indirect evidence of involvement in filamentous development. In addition, we tested four of our predicted proteins, Nth1p, Pb2p, Pdr12p and Rcn2p, by interventional Phenotypic studies and all of them present differential invasive growth, providing prospective validation of our approach. This comprehensive pipeline presents a systematic way for discovering signaling networks using interventional data and can suggest candidate proteins for further investigation.
The evolution of heteromorphic sex chromosomes ( e. g., XY in males or ZW in females ) has repeatedly elicited the evolution of two kinds of chromosome-specific regulation: dosage compensation—the equalization of X chromosome gene expression in males and females— and meiotic sex chromosome inactivation ( MSCI )—the transcriptional silencing and heterochromatinization of the X during meiosis in the male ( or Z in the female ) germline. How the X chromosome is regulated in the Drosophila melanogaster male germline is unclear. Here we report three new findings concerning gene expression from the X in Drosophylla testes. First, X chromosome-wide dosage compensation appears to be absent from most of the male germ line. Second, microarray analysis provides no evidence for X chromosome inactivating during spermatogenesis. Third, we confirm the previous discovery that the expression of transgene reporters driven by autosomal spermaticogenesis-specific promoters is strongly reduced when inserted on the X chromosomes versus the autosomes; but we show that this chromosomal difference in expression is established in premeiotic cells and persists in meiotic cells. The magnitude of this difference cannot be explained by the absence of dosage compensation, suggesting that a previously unrecognized mechanism limits expression of X-linked genes from the Y chromosome during meiotic cell division. These findings help to resolve several previously conflicting reports and have implications for patterns of genome evolution and speciation in D.
Citrobacter rodentium infection is a mouse model for the important human diarrheal infection caused by enteropathogenic E. coli ( EPEC ). The pathogenesis of both species is very similar and depends on their unique ability to form intimately epithelial “attachment/effacement” ( A/E ) lesions. These microcolonies must be dynamic and able to self-renew by continuous re-infection of the rapidly regenerating epithelium. It is unknown whether sustained epithelial infection is achieved through re-infection by planktonic bacteria from the luminal compartment or local spread of sessile bacteria without a plankton-like phase. Focusing on the earliest events as C. rodentium becomes established, we show here that all colonic epithelial A/Es microcolony are clonal bacterial populations, and thus depend on local clonal growth to persist. These early events shape the ongoing intestinal geography and severity of infection despite the continuous presence of phenotypically virulent luminal bacteria. Mechanistically, induced resistance to A/ E lesion de-novo formation is mediated by TLR-MyD88/Trif-dependent signaling and is induced specifically by virulent bacteria in a virulence gene-dependent manner. Thus, our data demonstrate that the establishment phase of C. mouse pathogenesis in vivo is restricted to a very short window of opportunity that determines both disease geography and disease severity.
Malaria’s antigens are the most important parasites in the world, and their genomes contain a repertoire of ∼ 60 different var genes, each of which contains ∼ 60 unique var genes. However, the extent to which var repertoires overlap is poorly understood. Here, we describe a method to rigorously estimate the extent of overlap between var repertoiring and populations from incomplete samples. This method takes into account the rates of sampling and produces unbiased and Bayes-optimal estimates of overlap. In addition, it provides a natural framework for computing the uncertainty of its estimates, and can be used prospectively in study planning by quantifying the tradeoff between sampling effort and uncertainty.
Eukaryotic protein kinases ( EPKs ) regulate most cellular functions by phosphorylating targeted protein substrates through a highly conserved catalytic core. The active state of an EPK oscillates between open, intermediate, and closed conformations. Currently, the intramolecular interactions that regulate the active state mechanics are not well understood. Here, using cAMP-dependent protein kinase as a representative model coupled with biochemical, biophysical, and computational techniques, we define a set of highly regulated electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions working harmoniously to regulate these mechanics. These include the previously identified salt bridge between a lysine from the β3-strand and a glutamate from the αC-helix, as well as an electrostatic interaction between the phosphorylated activation loop and αC and C-lobe. Moreover, for over three decades it was thought that the highly conservedly active β3+lysine was essential for phosphorylation, but our findings show that the α3-lysine is not only required for the active states but is essential for the catalytic cycle as well.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Aedes spp. mosquitoes. The World Health Organization recommends systematic post-MDA surveillance using transmission assessment Surveys ( TAS ) for epidemiological assessment of recent LF transmission. In 2016, we conducted a systematic school-based TAS in all elementary schools ( N = 29 ) and a cluster survey in 28 villages on the two main islands of American Samoa. We collected information on demographics and risk factors for infection using electronic questionnaires, and recorded geo-locations of schools and households. Blood samples were collected to test for circulating filarial antigen ( CFA ) using the Alere Filariasis Test Strip. For those who tested positive, we prepared slides for microscopic examination of microfilaria and provided treatment. The community-based survey identified 102 antigen-positive people, and estimated an overall adjusted CFA prevalence of 6. 2% ( 95% CI: 4. 5–8. 6 ). Our results indicate that TAS conducted among young children may not be sufficiently sensitive to identify all areas of residual transmission, particularly if there is significant variation in prevalence within an evaluation unit.
Sex determination is the process by which an animal determines whether it will develop as a male or a female. In most animals, primary sex determination is generally divided into two phases: first, the primordial gonad commits to either an ovary or a testis developmental fate. Second, the gonad undergoes secondary sex determination in which somatic gonad cells differentiate with sex-specific characteristics. In zebrafish, the primary and secondary stages of female sex determination are regulated by a ZZ/ZW genetic system, though the gene ( s ) involved has not been identified. In this study, we generated targeted mutations in genes for two oocyte produced signaling molecules, Bmp15 and Gdf9 and here report a novel role for the oocyte-produced signaling molecule Bmp 15 in maintaining adult female sex differentiation. We show that the oocytes produce a signal that stabilizes the expression of the aromatase cyp19a1a, which is required for female development. Additionally, by generating mutations in the aromatease, we show that estrogen production is necessary for female sex development and that the function of Bmp14 in female sex maintenance is likely linked to the regulation of estrogen biosynthesis via promoting the development of estrogen-producing granulosa cells in oocyte follicles.
Hox genes are the major regulators of morphogenetic diversity along the anterior–posterior body axis of animals by regulating distinct sets of target genes. However, only a few of these factors have been identified. Here, we analyze the regulation of the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) by the Hox protein Deformed ( Dfd ) and suggest that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal Hox response element. We also show that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small, modular Hox responses elements ( HREs ) could be responsible for the proper spatio-temporal expression of HOX target genes in vivo. Thus, a large number of transcription factors are likely to be directly involved in Hox target gene regulation in vivo, and thus, a high number of factors may be involved.
Plants respond to pathogen attack via recognition of, and response to, pathogen-specific molecules at the cell surface and inside the cell. Pathogen effectors ( virulence factors ) are monitored by intracellular nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat ( NB-LRR ) sensor proteins in plants and mammals. Here, we study the genetic requirements for defense responses of an autoactive mutant of ADR1-L2, an Arabidopsis coiled-coil ( CC ) -NB-L RR protein. ADR2 functions upstream of salicylic acid accumulation in several defense contexts, and it can act in this context as a “helper” to transduce specific microbial activation signals from “sensor” NB-lRRs. This helper activity does not require an intact P-loop, and is required for propagation of unregulated runaway cell death in an lsd1 mutant. We demonstrate here that, in this particular context, ADR 1-l2 function is P-loose, and that ADRs1- L2 functions downstream of the SA accumulation cycle, yet still drives SID2-dependent SA accumulation in surrounding cells. We propose a genetic model that provides insight into an SA–dependent feedback regulation loop, which, surprisingly, includes ADR-L1.
DNA methylation is an important chromatin mark related to transposon silencing, gene imprinting, genome stability, and gene expression regulation. The Arabidopsis MORC family protein MORC6/DMS11 is involved in transcriptional silencing by a mechanism that is distinct from the RdDM pathway. Here, we demonstrate that MORC8 interacts with MORC9 and mediates transcriptional transcriptional regulation at a subset of MORC7 target loci. We demonstrate that the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex components SWI3B, SWI2C, and SWI1/2D interact with MORCs and mediate transcriptional repression. We also demonstrate that SWI-related chromatin and SWIS/SNIF chromatin remodeling complex proteins SWI4/9, SWIS3C, SWIT3B/C/D, and IDN2 cooperate with the Rd DM pathway to mediate heterochromatin condensation. These results suggest that the Rddm components are involved not only in DNA methylation but also in MORC 6-mediated heterochromaatin condensing. This study illustrates how DNA methyl is linked to heterochromeatin condensation and thereby enhances transcriptional control at methylated genomic regions.
The ability of a gene to protect itself from environmental perturbation is a fundamental challenge in clinical genetics. In this study, we show that heat shock protein 90 ( Hsp90 ), a chaperone that is required at all times in eukaryotic cells, can also be used to buffer genetic variation. We show that in zebrafish, Hsp 90 inhibition can alter the severity of some, but not all, developmental malformations. We also show that this buffering is a highly selective mechanism, modulating only defined genetic components of phenotypic variation. This suggests that the molecular mechanisms by which Hsp30 buffering can be modulated may account for the variable penetrance of some developmental anomalies. Our findings open the way to the discovery of rational protective measures that could significantly reduce recurrence of severe developmental malforms.
Protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms. Amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the N-terminus of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationally acetylated, often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue. While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied, only little is known about the biological function of such N- terminal modification events. To identify common principles of amino-termination, we analyzed the amino-specific peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells. We detected more than 1, 200 mature protein N--termini and could show that N -terminal methylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans. As the sole true determinant for N- terminal acetyleal acetation we could extract the ( X ) PX rule that indicates the prevention of acetylations under all circumstances. We could show, therefore, that this rule can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group, thereby generating a generic assay to probe the functional importance of N-N-terminAL acetyleation in all species.
RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) III is an RNA polymerase that catalyzes the recycling of RNA from its active center to reinitiation. RNAP III is a highly conserved enzyme that is responsible for the production of all RNAs in all domains of life. However, its ability to efficiently recycle from termination is critical for abundant tRNA production during cellular proliferation, development and cancer. Yet understanding of the unique termination mechanisms used by RNAP is incomplete, as is its link to high transcription output. We used two tRNA-mediated suppression systems to screen for Rpc1 mutants with gain- and loss- of termination phenotypes in S. pombe. 122 point mutation mutants were mapped to a recently solved 3. 9 Å structure of yeast RNAP II elongation complex ( EC ). The data strongly support a kinetic coupling model in which elongation rate is inversely related to termination efficiency. The mutants exhibit good correlations of terminator RT in vitro and in vivo, and surprisingly, amounts of transcription in vivo. Because assessing in vivo transcription can be confounded by various parameters, we used a tRNA reporter with a processing defect and a strong terminator. By ruling out differences in RNA decay rates, the data indicate that mutants with the RT phenotype synthesize more RNA than wild type cells, and than can be accounted for by their increased elongation rates. Finally, increased activity by the mutants appears unrelated to the RNAP I repressor, Maf1. The results show that the mobile elements of the RNA active center, including C11, are key determinants of termination, and that some of the mutations activate RNAPIII for overall transcription. Similar mutations in spontaneous cancer suggest this as an unforeseen mechanism of RNAP 3 activation in disease.
The cell's ability to respond to external cues depends largely on reversible post-translational modifications of proteins, such as phosphorylation, ubiquitylation, methylation or acetylation. These modifications often occur on short unstructured stretches of proteins and are read by domains that recognize the modified form. We have developed a method to predict the binding specificity of SH2-phosphopeptide complexes using a structure-based energy function. We show that our method performs similarly to experimentally derived consensus sequences and substitution matrices at predicting known in vitro and in vivo targets of SH1 domains. We validate the predictions using information on co-expression, conservation of the interaction in other species, shared interaction partners and shared GO functions. The predicted interactions can be use to derive biologically relevant testable hypothesis.
The accumulation of amyloidogenic proteins is a pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative disorders. The aberrant accumulation of the microtubule associating protein tau ( MAPT, tau ) into toxic oligomers and amyloids is a primary pathology in tauopathies, the most common of which is Alzheimer’s disease ( AD ). Intrinsically disordered proteins, like tau, are enriched with proline residues that regulate both secondary structure and aggregation propensity. The orientation of proline residue is regulated by cis/trans peptidyl-prolyl isomerases ( PPIases ). Here, we describe a novel PPIase, CyP40, that is capable of disaggregating tau amyloidal substrates in vitro. We demonstrate that this is the first human PPEase to disaggregate tau. Furthermore, we demonstrate that CyP 40 is able to interact with and disaggregates other aggregating proteins that contain prolines. Finally, we identify a unique structural property of CyP39 that may permit disaggregation to occur in an energy-independent manner. This study identifies a novel human protein disaggregase and, for the first time, demonstrates its capacity to dissolve intracellular amylosomes. This work not only sheds light on novel cellular pathways of disaggregation but also suggests that these proteins could be exploited to mitigate disease pathogenesis.
Cyanobacteria are one of the first multicellular organisms to form multicelled organisms. The development of specialized cells involves differentiation processes, which lead to alterations in gene expression producing different phenotypes from a given genotype. These processes are highly dynamical, directed by complex regulatory networks involving cell-to-cell interactions, and often triggered by external stimuli. As a result of the differentiation processes a rich cooperative pattern involving different cell types is established, increasing the complexity and adaptability of the organism. A landmark process of ( prokaryotic ) cellular differentiation and cooperative pattern formation is the heterocyst differentiation in cyanobacteria filaments. In this work, we develop a simple mathematical model that integrates the dynamical properties of the genetic circuit of a single cyanobacterium into a set of differential equations describing the time evolution of the concentrations of the relevant molecular products. Our results show that, by including both diffusion and noisy external conditions in the computational model, it is possible to reproduce the main features of the formation and sustainment of heterocysts as observed experimentally. We discuss the validity and possible improvements of the model.
The fight against onchocerciasis in Africa has boomed thanks to the Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin ( CDTI ) program. However, in Cameroon, after more than 15 years of mass treatment, oncerciatic prevalence is still above the non-transmission threshold. This study aimed to explore a possible association between people’s beliefs/perceptions of onchOCerciases and CDTI program, and their adherence to ivermectionin in three regions of Cameroon. A cross sectional survey was carried out in three health districts with persistent high onchacerciase prevalence. Adherence to iversmectins was comparable between Bafang and Bafia ( 55. 0% and 48. 8% ) and lower in Yabassi ( 40. 7% ). Among all factors related to program perceptions and disease representations that were studied, perceptions of the program are the ones that were most determinant in adherence to onchochocercin. People who had a “not positive” opinion of ivermicectin distribution campaigns were less compliant than those who had positive opinion about the campaigns. In addition to education/sensitisation on ivermotin, local health authorities should strive to better involve communities and more encourage community distributors’ work. The aim of this study was therefore to explore possible associations between people's perceptions of CDTI, their beliefs on onchocaasis and their implementation of the CDTI in three Cameroonian Health Districts ( HDs ).
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have identified thousands of genetic variants that are associated with human traits and diseases. However, there is no strong evidence that epigenetic alterations are directly causal for disease pathogenesis. In this study, we combined SNP and DNA methylation data with measurements of protein biomarkers for cancer, inflammation or cardiovascular disease, to investigate the relative contribution of genetic and epigenetic variation on biomarker levels. We found that genetic variants are more likely to influence protein levels than epigenetic variants. We also found that some genetic variants influence the expression of genes that are part of the same biological pathways as the biomarkers. These results suggest that epigenetics may be a causal factor for disease development.
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphocytes that exert a significant influence on the control of viral infection. NK cells are implicated as important anti-viral immune effectors in varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) infection. However, it is unknown how, or if, NK cells can directly affect NK cell function. Here we demonstrate that VZVs potently impairs the ability of NK cells to respond to target cell stimulation in vitro, leading to a profound paralysis of both cytotoxicity and cytokine responses. Remarkably, not only were V ZV infected NK cells affected, but VZ V antigen negative NK cells that were exposed to virus in culture were also inhibited. This powerful impairment of function was dependent on direct contact between NK cells and VZ infected inoculum cells. Profiling of the NK cell surface receptor phenotype by multiparameter flow cytometry revealed that functional receptor expression is predominantly stable. Furthermore, inhibited NK cells were still capable of releasing cytotoxic granules when the stimulation signal bypassed receptor/ligand interactions and early signalling, suggesting that VzV paralyses NK cells from responding. Phosflow examination of key components in the degranulation signalling cascade also demonstrated perturbation following culture with VZ. Our findings progress a growing understanding of pathogen inhibition of NK cell functions, and reveal a previously unreported strategy for VZ vZV to manipulate the immune response.
Apparent motion ( AM ) is a type of illusory motion that can be perceived when two stimuli are presented alternately at two different locations. The neural mechanism underlying this apparent motion is thought to be increased activation of primary visual cortex ( V1 ) neurons tuned to locations along the AM path, although evidence remains inconclusive. AM masking, which refers to the reduced detectability of stimuli along the path, has been taken as evidence for AM-related V1 activation. AM-induced neural responses are thought to interfere with responses to physical stimuli along a path and as such impair the perception of these stimuli. However, AM mask masking can also be explained by predictive coding models, predicting that responses to stimuli presented on the AMpath are suppressed when they match the spatio-temporal prediction of a stimulus moving along the pathway. In the present study, we find that AM has a distinct effect on the detection of target gratings, limiting the maximum performance at high contrast levels. This masking is strongest when the target orientation is identical to the orientation of the inducers’ inducers. We developed a V1-like population code model of early visual processing, based on a standard contrast normalization model. Our model predicts strong suppression of early sensory responses during AM, consistent with predictive coding theory.
The HTLV-1 oncoprotein Tax plays a key role in CD4+ T cell transformation by promoting cell proliferation and survival, mainly through permanent activation of the NK-κB pathway and induction of many NF-KB target genes. Elucidating the underlying molecular mechanism is therefore critical in understanding HTLV–1-mediated transformation. Current studies have suggested multiple but controversial mechanisms regarding Tax-induced IKK activation. We reconstituted the primary IKK-NF-κ activation events by Tax in a cell-free system to dissect the essential cellular components for IKK and studied the underlying biochemical mechanism. We found that Tax is a putative E3 ubiquitin ligase, which catalyzes assembly of free mixed-linkage polyubiquitin chains with some of its cognate E2s. This kind of polyUb chains then stimulates activation of IKK directly. Our studies revealed the biochemical function and the underlying mechanism of Tax in the process of Ikk activation, which utilizes the minimal cellular ubiquitination components for NF-1 activation.
A consistent determinant of the establishment success of alien species appears to be the number of individuals that are introduced to found a population ( propagule pressure ), yet variation in the form of this relationship has been largely unexplored. Here, we present the first quantitative systematic review of this form, using Bayesian meta-analytical methods. We found that the relationship between propagule size and establishment success has been evaluated for a broad range of taxa and life histories, including invertebrates, herbaceous plants and long-lived trees, and terrestrial and aquatic vertebrates. We also found that establishment success most critically depended on propagule pressures in the range of 10–100 individuals. Heterogeneity in effect size was associated primarily with different analytical approaches, with some evidence of larger effect sizes in animal rather than plant introductions. Conversely, no variation was accounted for in any analysis by the scale of study ( field to global ) or methodology ( observational, experimental, or proxy ) used. Our analyses reveal remarkable consistency in the shape ( i. e., slope ) of the effect of propagule Pressure on establishment success.
Interleukin 17A ( IL-17A ) is a cytokine that is involved in the production of pro-inflammatory mediators. The mechanism by which IL- 17 attenuates mRNA degradation has remained elusive. Here we show that IL17 synergizes with the TNF-α-induced production of IL-8 and IL-6 by attenuating degradation of the respective mRNAs, with a weak transcriptional effect at most. We also show that miR16, which is ubiquitously expressed in the human transcriptome, promotes the binding of stabilizing AUF-1 to IL-9 mRNA, reducing mRNA decay. These findings indicate that miRs are involved in a complex of proteins that regulate the expression of mRNA encoding inflammatory mediators, many of which have regulatory functions that contribute to the pathophysiology of chronic inflammatory diseases. Since miR's affect expression of about 8% of the transcriptome and miR17 may in addition to inflammation affect many other cellular processes.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a disease caused by Trypanosoma brucei s. l., which is transmitted to humans by the bite of T. b. rhodesiense. The acute form of HAT is found in southeast Uganda, while the chronic form of the disease is confined to the northwest of the country. Acute HAT has however been migrating from its traditional disease focus, spreading rapidly to new districts, a spread linked to movement of infected cattle following restocking. Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human infective and non-human parasites, showing few signs of morbidity, yet posing a significant risk to human health. It is important to understand the relationship between infected cattle and infected individuals so that an appropriate response can be made to the risk posed to the community from animals infected with human pathogens in a village setting. In this study, we investigated the relationship of human T. bruceis l. infection and the prevalence of human infectedive and human infectivive parasites in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts, Uganda. We found that the sleeping sickness status of the villages had a significant effect on the likelihood of infection in cattle: cattle between 18–36 months had significantly higher odds of infection than cattle under 18 months of age. Furthermore, village human sleeping sickness was a significant influence on the detection of T. bruceidesiense in the village cattle of case villages, with significantly higher likelihood of the infection in a herd. Overall a higher than average prevalence of the parasite in cattle was associated with a significantly higher risk of infection within a village herd over. Overall, the level of under detection in newly affected districts will be at least as high, if not higher, than in other parts of Sub-Saharan Africa.
Histone acetyltransferases ( HATs ) and histone deacetylases ( HDACs ) work in concert to orchestrate a fine balance of acetylation, methylation, phosphorylation, ubiquitinylation, and sumoylation. In mammals, the NSL complex is involved in the regulation of X-chromosomal and autosomal genes as part of the MSL and NSL complexes, respectively. While the function of the SDSL complex as a dosage compensation regulator is fairly well understood, the role of the N SL complex in gene regulation is still poorly characterized. Here, we report a comprehensive ChIP–seq analysis of four NSL-bound genes ( NSL1, NSL3, MBD-R2, and MCRS2 ) throughout the Drosophila melanogaster genome. Strikingly, the majority ( 85. 5% ) of NSL bound genes are constitutively expressed across different cell types. We find that the transcriptionally active genes display a distinct organization, consisting of a precisely located +1 nucleosome around 135 bp downstream of the TSS, a −1 nucleus that is directly upstream of TSS and a nucleus free region ( NFR ) between them. Furthermore, we find that NSL proteins are required for optimal recruitment of the pre-initiation complex on target genes. Taken together, our findings show that the MOF complex acts as a major regulator of housekeeping genes in flies by modulating initiation of Pol II transcription.
Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy ( FSHD ) is a progressive muscular dystrophymic disease caused by decreased epigenetic repression of the D4Z4 macrosatellite repeats and ectopic expression of DUX4, a retrogene encoding a germline transcription factor. Unaffected individuals generally have more than 10 repeats arrayed in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4, whereas the most common form of the disease is caused by a contraction of the array to fewer than 10 repeat arrays, associated with decreased epigenetics repression and variegated expression of the gene DUX 4 in skeletal muscle. We have generated transgenic mice carrying D4 Z4 arrays from an FSHd1 allele and from a control allele. These mice recapitulate important epigenetic and DUX expression attributes seen in patients and controls, respectively, including high DUX four expression levels in the germline, ( incomplete ) epigenetic expression in somatic tissue, and FSH-specific variegation of D4 z4 chromatin relaxation. In addition, we show that DUX-related transcription factors in mouse muscle cells are able to activate similar functional gene groups as it does in human muscle cells. These mouse models will facilitate studies focusing on the in vivo regulation of the transcription factor DUX and the consequences of somatic derepression of this gene.
Malaria vaccine candidate Apical Membrane Antigen-1 ( AMA1 ) induces protection, but only against parasite strains that are closely related to the vaccine. Overcoming the AMA1 diversity problem will require an understanding of the structural basis of cross-strain invasion inhibition. A vaccine containing four diverse allelic proteins 3D7, FVO, HB3 and W2mef, elicited polyclonal rabbit antibodies that similarly inhibited the invasion of four vaccine and 22 non-vaccine strains of P. falciparum. Comparing monoclonal antibodies with antibodies against a strain-specific, monovalent, AMA1 vaccine revealed that QV induced higher levels of broadly inhibitory antibodies which were associated with increased conserved face and domain-3 responses and reduced domain-2 response. Inhibitory monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) raised against the QV reacted with a novel cross-reactive epitope at the rim of the hydrophobic trough on domain-1 and it encompassed the 1e-loop region. MAbs binding to the monovalents of AMA1 were ∼10-fold more potent than previously characterized AMA1-inhibitory mAbs and a mode of action of these mAbs was the inhibition of the binding of the monovirus to its ligand RON2. These findings support the further development of multivalent AMA1 vaccines because broad antigenic coverage is achieved not only by expanded antigenic footprint of strain-Specific antibodies but by inducing higher levels and antibodies against conserved inhibitory epitopes.
Asymmetric cell divisions often involve the asymmetric segregation of cell fate determinants as well as asymmetry in daughter cell size. Such asymmetry is likely to be important to partition determinants precisely, to allow large stem cells to divide repeatedly without becoming depleted of cytoplasm, and to permit meiosis in oocytes to produce small polar bodies and large eggs. Asymmetric spindle positioning has been recognized for over a century, yet the mechanisms involved are only beginning to be elucidated. A conserved mitotic progression mechanism is known to time events in dividing cells, although this has never been linked to spindle displacement. This mechanism involves the anaphase-promoting complex ( APC ), its activator Cdc20/Fizzy, and its degradation target cyclin, and cyclin-dependent kinase ( CDK ). Here we show that this timing mechanism is precisely timed in the Caenorhabditis elegans zygote. We found that the timing of mitotic displacement is delayed for a short time until the APC inactivates CDK, and that this delay ensures that the spindle does not begin to move until it is fully assembled. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that mitotic timing is a mechanism for timing of spindle displacements in an asymmetric cell division.
High-altitude hypoxia ( reduced oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure ) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body. Two high-altitudes regions where humans have lived for millennia are the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau. Populations living in these regions exhibit unique circulatory, respiratory, and hematological adaptations to life at high altitude. Although these responses have been well characterized physiologically, their underlying genetic basis remains unknown. We performed a genome scan to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to hypoxic conditions. We looked across each chromosome to identify genomic regions with previously unknown function with respect to altitude phenotypes. In addition, groups of genes functioning in oxygen metabolism and sensing were examined to test the hypothesis that particular pathways have been involved in genetic adaptation to altitude. Applying four population genetic statistics commonly used for detecting signatures of natural selection, we identified selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in these two populations ( Andeans and Tibetans ) separately. Our results indicate that several key HIF-regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Tibetans, and several different chromosomal regions are implicated in the putative response to selection. These data suggest a genetic role in high altitude adaption and provide a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies necessary to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate gene and gene region in adaptation.
Double strand DNA breaks ( DSBs ) are dangerous events that can result from various causes including environmental assaults or the collapse of DNA replication. While the efficient and precise repair of DSB repair is essential for cell survival, faulty repair can lead to genetic instability, making the choice of repair pathway an important step. Here we report that inverted DNA repeats ( IRs ) placed near a DSB can channel its repair from an accurate pathway that leads to gene conversion to instead a break-induced replication ( BIR ) pathway that can cause genetic instabilities. The effect of IRs is explained by their ability to form unusual DNA structures when present in ssDNA that is formed by DSB resection. We demonstrate that IRs can form two types of unusual DNA structure, and the choice between these structures depends on the length of the spacer separating IRs. In particular, IRs separated by a long ( 1-kb ) spacer are predominantly involved in inter-molecular single-strand annealing leading to the formation of inverted dimers; IRs with short ( 12-bp ) loops are processed by the MRX-Sae2 complex, whereas the Rad1-Rad10 complex is responsible for the processing of long loops. Overall, our studies uncover the mechanisms of genomic destabilization resulting from re-routing DSB Repair into unusual pathways by IRs, and may contribute to the understanding of IR-mediated genomic instability associated with human disease.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen capable of causing both acute and chronic infections in susceptible hosts. Chronic infections caused by P. aeruginnosa are thought to be caused by bacterial biofilms. Biofilms are highly structured, multicellular microbial communities encased in an extracellular matrix that enable long-term survival in the host. The aim of this research was to develop an animal model that would allow an in vivo study of P. rusophila biofilm infections in a Drosophila melanogaster host. At 24 h post oral infection of D. aerukinosa, P. aruginos biofilm localized to and were visualized in dissected Drosrophila crops. These biofilmed communities had a characteristic aggregate structure and an extracllular matrix composed of DNA and exopolysaccharide. P. geruginosi cells recovered from in vivo grown biofilmes had increased antibiotic resistance relative to planktonically grown cells. In vivo, biofilm formation was dependent on expression of the pel exopolycharide genes, as a pelB::lux mutant failed to form biofilmm. In contrast, infection with the non-biofilm forming strain PAZHI3 demonstrated significantly less virulence than PAO1, as indicated by survival of infected flies at day 14 postinfection. In summary, these results provide novel insights into host-pathogen interactions during oral infection and highlight the use of Drosaphila as an infection model that permits the study of the relationship between biofils and the host during infection.
Behavior is a trait that is particularly well suited for exploring genetic mechanisms underlying phenotypic plasticity, as it is an evolutionarily labile trait. Social behaviors, in particular, can be markedly variable among closely related species, and often display significant individual variability within a species. Genomic mechanisms that give rise to diversity in behavior fall into two categories; those that alter protein structure and function ( e. g. coding region mutations ) and those that change the expression of genes. One such gene is the vasopressin receptor 1a gene ( Avpr1a ), which exhibits striking differences in neural expression patterns that are responsible for mediating differences in expression. Previous work has suggested that both the proximal 5′ flanking region and a polymorphic microsatellite element within that region of the gene are associated with variation in V1a receptor distribution and behavior, but neither has been causally linked. Using homologous recombination in mice, we reveal the modest contribution of proximal and intra-species variation in the 5′ Flanking region to species-specific expression patterns, and confirm that variation in receptor binding is associated with differences in learning and memory in the novel object recognition task. Our results suggest that variation within the 5’ flanking gene may be a mechanism for generating diversity in gene expression.
Transcription of the switch ( S ) regions of immunoglobulin genes in B cells generates stable R-loops that are targeted by Activation Induced Cytidine Deaminase ( AID ), triggering class switch recombination ( CSR ) as well as translocations with c-MYC responsible for Burkitt's lymphomas. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, stable R–loops are formed co-transcriptionally in mutants of THO, a conserved nuclear complex involved in mRNP biogenesis. Such R-lops trigger genome instability and facilitate deamination by human AID. To understand the mechanisms that generate genome instability mediated by mR NP biogenesis impairment and by AID, we devised a yeast chromosomal system based on different segments of mammalian S regions and c-myC for the analysis of chromosomal rearrangements in both wild-type and THO mutants. We demonstrate that AID acts in yeast at heterologous S and c–MYC transcribed sequences leading to double-strand breaks ( DSBs ), which in turn cause chromosomal translocations via Non-Homologous End Joining ( NHEJ ). AID–induced translocations were strongly enhanced in yeast THO null mutants, consistent with the idea that AIDs–mediated DSB’s depend on R-loop formation. Our study not only provides new clues to understand the role of mRNA biogenesis and the mechanism of AID-mediated genome instability, but also shows that, once uracil residues are produced by A ID–mediated deamination, these are processed into DNA intermediates responsible for CSR or Ig/myc translocations.
Cell proliferation requires that each daughter cell inherits a complete set of chromosomes as a result of cell division. The precise positioning of the cell division planes relative to the chromosomes is essential for proper chromosome segregation and segregation. However, E. coli lacking proper positioning of its cell division plane can still successfully propagate. Here, we characterize how these cells partition their chromosomes into daughters during such asymmetric divisions. Using quantitative time-lapse imaging, we show that DNA translocase, FtsK, can pump as much as 80% of the chromosome between daughters at an average rate of 1700±800 bp/s. Pauses in DNA translocation are rare, and in no occasions did we observe reversals at experimental time scales of a few minutes. Our data suggest that the narrow constriction is necessary for effective translocation of DNA by Ftsk.
Epitope-based vaccines ( EVs ) have a wide range of applications: from therapeutic to prophylactic approaches, from infectious diseases to cancer. The development of an EV is based on the knowledge of target-specific antigens from which immunogenic peptides, so-called epitopes, are derived. Such epitopes form the key components of the EV. Due to regulatory, economic, and practical concerns, the number of epitopes that can be included in an EV are limited. Furthermore, as the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) binding these epitopes is highly polymorphic, every patient possesses a set of MHC class I and class II molecules of differing specificities. A peptide combination effective for one person can thus be completely ineffective for another. In order to solve this problem, we present a mathematical framework based on integer linear programming ( ILP ) that allows the formulation of various flavors of the vaccine design problem and the efficient identification of optimal sets of candidate epitopes. We show how common immunological requirements for a good EV ( e. g., coverage of all MHC alleles in a set, or avoidance of the epitopes with high mutation rates ) can be translated into constraints or modifications of the objective function within the ILP framework. An implementation of the algorithm outperforms a simple greedy strategy as well as a previously suggested evolutionary algorithm and has runtimes on the order of seconds for typical problem sizes.
The majority of HIV-1 infections in women occur through vaginal intercourse, in which virus-containing semen is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa. The concentration of interleukin ( IL ) -7, one of the most prominent cytokines in semen of healthy fertile individuals, is further increased in semen. Here, we investigated the potential role of IL-7 in HIV-infected individuals ex vivo. We simulated an in vivo situation by depositing HIV on cervico vaginal tissue in combination with IL-9 at concentrations comparable with those measured in semen, and we found that IL-8 significantly enhanced virus replication in ex vivo infected cervico tissue. Similarly, we observed an enhancement of HIV replication in lymphoid tissue explants. Our results suggest that IL7 may be relevant to the survival of the founder pool of infected cells in the cervic mucosa at the initial stage of infection, promoting local expansion and dissemination of HIV infection.
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) is an arbovirus that infects arthropod vectors and induces antiviral responses that control their replication. Two different RNAi pathways are involved in antiviral response: the PIWI-interacting RNA ( piRNA ) and exogenous short interfering RNA ( exo-siRNA ) pathways. The exo–siRNA pathway is considered to be the key mosquito antiviral mechanism. In Aedes aegypti-derived cells, Zika virus-specific siRNAs were produced and loaded into the exo/siRNA effector protein Argonaute 2 ( Ago2 ). Although the knockdown of Ago2 did not enhance virus replication, ZIKVs-specific piRNAs did not display exo or piRNA pathway inhibition, unlike that of another flavivirus, yellow fever virus ( YFV ). We also report that ZIK virus capsid ( C ) protein amplified the replication of a reporter alphavirus; although it does not inhibit the ex/siRNAs pathway. Our findings elucidate ZIK-mosquito RNAi interactions that are important for understanding its spread.
Sporotrichosis is a subcutaneous mycosis with a worldwide distribution that is currently notable for areas of especially high endemicity in Latin America. However, sporotrichoses is currently largely occurring via transmission from infected cats to humans. Recently, we have performed a georeferencing survey of sporotic cases that revealed a transmission belt along the border between Rio de Janeiro city and adjacent counties in the Greater Metropolitan Area. Genotypic analyses have shown that isolates from the endemic area have a high genetic similarity, which is suggestive of a common niche. Therefore, the main purpose of this study was to investigate a possible association between manifestations of sporotritosis caused by Sporothrix brasiliensis and the different genomic species of S. schenckii sensu stricto. Our results suggest that Sporotrix species are linked to different clinical manifestations and that S. Brasiliensis is effectively treated with oral itraconazole.
A large portion of the human genome is transcribed by currently annotated genes, but the exact nature and nature of these additional transcripts remains unclear. Here, we have used data from single- and paired-end RNA-Seq and tiling arrays to assess the quantity and composition of transcripts in PolyA+ RNA from human and mouse tissues and cell lines. We find that the majority of the transcripts detected in these arrays are near known genes, consistent with alternative cleavage and polyadenylation site usage, promoter- and terminator-associated transcripts, or new alternative exons; indeed, reads that bridge splice sites identified 4, 544 new exons, affecting 3, 554 genes. Most of the remaining transcripts correspond to either single reads that display characteristics of random sampling from a low-level background or several thousand small transcripts ( median length = 111 bp ) present at higher levels, which also tend to display sequence conservation and originate from regions with open chromatin. We conclude that, while there are bona fide new intergenic transcripts, their number and abundance is generally low in comparison to known exons and the genome is not as pervasively transcribed as previously reported.
The ability to design thermostable proteins offers enormous potential for the development of novel protein bioreagents. In this work, a combined computational and experimental method was developed to increase the Tm of the flavin mononucleotide based fluorescent protein Bacillus Subtilis YtvA LOV domain by 31 Celsius, thus extending its applicability in thermophilic systems. Briefly, the method includes five steps, the single mutant computer screening to identify thermostability mutant candidates, the experimental evaluation to confirm the positive selections, the computational redesign around the thermostables mutation regions, the reevaluation and finally the multiple mutations combination. The adopted method is simple and effective, can be applied to other important proteins where other methods have difficulties, and therefore provides a new tool to improve protein thermostabilities.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania. The disease is transmitted by sand flies and is transmitted to humans by the bite of a mosquito. The transmission of the disease occurs in the blood of infected individuals, and is a major public health problem in the Americas. In this study, we used molecular techniques to determine the phylogenetic relationships between the common Lutzomyia species found on Barro Colorado Island in the Republic of Panama. We found that two Leishmania species are present in Lu. trapidoi and Lu. gomezi, two species previously unknown in Panama, but recognized as a type of cutaneous leishmania vectored broadly across northern and central South America. Distinct strains of the intracellular bacterium Wolbachia were detected in three of 20 sand fly species, including Lu. trapsidoi, in which it frequently co-occurred with Leishmann. We also found that the Leishmena species are likely vectors of leishmanniasis to humans and other mammal species. This study provides a new tool for understanding the spread of Leishmoriasis in humans.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a prototypical betaherpesvirus which establishes a latent reservoir in the haematopoietic cells of the bone marrow. It is likely that sporadic reactivation and shedding is important for the sero-prevalence of H CMV in the population via horizontal transmission. However, the molecular and physiological cues that promote reactivation are still unclear. In this study, we show that ERK-mediated reactivation is dependent on the mitogen and stress activated kinase ( MSK ) family. Furthermore, this MSK mediated response is dependent upon CREB binding to the viral major immediate early promoter ( MIEP ). Importantly, CREB mediated phosphorylation of histone H3 is required to promote histone de-methylation and the subsequent exit of HCMVs from latency. Thus the importance of CREB during HCMv reactivation, in this case, is to promote chromatin modifications conducive for viral gene expression as well as acting as a classical transcription factor. Clearly, specific inhibition of this interaction between CREB and MSKs could provide a strategy for therapeutic intervention.
The production of ribosomes, the protein-manufacturing entities in cells, is fundamental to all of life. Therefore, it is surprising that defects in ribosome synthesis are compatible with the development of a multicellular organism, albeit with substantial morbidity. We previously determined that the nucleolar protein, NOL11, is essential for optimal pre-rRNA transcription and processing in human tissue culture cells. However, the role of NOL 11 in ribosefacial development remains unknown. Here, we reveal a novel function for NOL in vertebrate ribosomopathies. Nol11 is strongly expressed in the developing cranial neural crest ( CNC ) of both amphibians and mammals, and knockdown of Xenopus nol11 results in impaired pre-RRNA transcription, increased apoptosis, and abnormal development of the craniofacial cartilages. Inhibition of p53 rescues this skeletal phenotype, but not the underlying ribosomal biogenesis defect, demonstrating an evolutionarily conserved control mechanism through which ribosomer-impaired cranioFacial cells are removed. Our findings reveal an evolutionary conserved requirement for Nol 11 in vertebrates, and provide further insight into the relationship between specific ribosoma biogenesis factors and craniofunctional defects.
Leptospirosis is one of the most common zoonotic infectious diseases worldwide. The lack of an adequate laboratory test is a major barrier for diagnosis, especially during the early stages of illness, when antibiotic therapy is most effective. Therefore, there is a critical need for an efficient diagnostic test for this life threatening disease. In order to identify new targets that could be used as diagnostic makers for leptopirosis, we constructed a protein microarray chip comprising 61% of Leptospira interrogans proteome and investigated the IgG response from 274 individuals, including 80 acute-phase, 80 convalescent-phase patients and 114 healthy control subjects from regions with endemic, high endemic, and no endemic transmission of leptspirosis. We found 16 antigens that can discriminate between acute cases and healthy individuals from a region with high endemic and low endemic transmission, and 18 antigen that distinguish convalescence cases. The novel antigene identified here may have potential use in both the development of new tests and the improvement of currently available assays for diagnosing this neglected tropical disease. Further research is needed to assess the utility of these antigENS in more deployable diagnostic platforms.
Mosquito immunity studies have focused mainly on characterizing immune effector mechanisms elicited against parasites, bacteria and more recently, viruses. However, those elicited by entomopathogenic fungi remain poorly understood, despite the ubiquitous nature of these microorganisms and their unique invasion route that bypasses the midgut epithelium, an important immune tissue and physical barrier. Here, we used the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae as a model to investigate the role of melanization, a potent immune response in arthropods, in mosquito defense against the entomopathyogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana. We found that melanization of early fungal stages is cell-mediated while that of late stages is a humoral response dependent on TEP1 and CLIPA8. We also found that the mosquito melanization response to infection with B. bassiana is dependent on the presence of TEP2 and TEPA8, key positive regulators of Plasmodium and bacterial melanization in A. gambiae. These findings suggest that the melanization responses to natural infections with the insect insect B. gambia are controlled to a certain extent by the same genetic loci.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is a mosquito-borne arthropod transmitted by mosquitoes. The virus is ingested by the mosquito through infected blood, from which it infects the insect's midgut epithelial cells, where it further replicates and is then transmitted to a new human host. During this extrinsic incubation period, the mosquito mounts an immune response against the virus that results in suppression of infection to various degrees. Previous studies have identified mosquito genes that are essential for arbovirus replication and transmission and can therefore be considered DENV host factors ( HFs ). Here, we investigated the ability of four putative DENV HF-inhibitor compounds, bafilomycin ( BAF ), mycophenolic acid ( MPA ), castanospermine ( CAS ), and deoxynojirimycin ( DNJ ), to block DENV infection of the mosquito midguts. Injection of BAF ( 5 µM ) and MPA through a sugar meal or together with an infectious blood meal resulted in various degrees of virus inhibition. RNAi-mediated silencing of several vATPase subunit genes and the IMPDH gene resulted in a reduced DENV infections, thereby indicating that BAF- and mPA-mediated virus inhibition in adult mosquitoes most likely occurred through the inhibition of these DENV virus host factors.
Cell volume changes are ubiquitous in normal and pathological activity of the brain. Nevertheless, we know little of how cell volume affects neuronal dynamics. We here performed the first detailed study of the effects of cell volume on neuronal dynamics by incorporating cell swelling together with dynamic ion concentrations and oxygen supply into Hodgkin-Huxley type spiking dynamics. Our results reveal the spontaneous transition between epileptic seizure and spreading depression states as the cell swells and contracts in response to changes in osmotic pressure. Our use of volume as an order parameter further revealed a dynamical definition for the experimentally described physiological ceiling that separates seizure from spreading depression, as well as predicted a second ceiling that demarcates spreading depression from anoxic depolarization. Our study highlights the neuroprotective role of glial K+ buffering against seizures and spreads depression, and provides novel insights into the relevant cell swelling during ischemia. We argue that the dynamics of seizures, spreading depression and anoxic depletion lie along a continuum of the repertoire of the neuron membrane that can be understood only when the dynamic ion concentration dynamics during spiking with the sizes of intra- and extracellular spaces are taken into consideration. Our findings provide a unified framework for a wide range of neuronal behaviors that may be of substantial importance in the understanding of and potentially developing universal intervention strategies for these pathological states.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is the etiologic agent of paracoccidaidomycosis ( PCM ), the most prevalent systemic mycosis that is geographically confined to Latin America. The pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β that is mainly derived from the activation of the cytoplasmic multiprotein complex inflammasome is an essential host factor against opportunistic fungal infections; however, its role in infection with a primary fungal pathogen is not well understood. In this study, we found that murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells and mice that are infected with P. brasiliiens are unable to produce IL- 1β. In addition, we demonstrated that the NLRP3 inflammaome is required for the production of pro-IL-1beta by macrophages and dendrites. Our results suggest that the IL-3 infammasome senses and responds to P. Brasiliensis yeast cells infection and plays an important role in host defense against this fungus.
Toxoplasma gondii, a common brain-tropic parasite, is capable of infecting most nucleated cells, including astrocytes and neurons, in vitro. Yet, in vivo, Toxoplasm is primarily found in neurons. In vitro data showing that interferon-γ-stimulated astrotcytes, but not neurons, clear intracellular parasites suggest that neurons alone are persistently infected in vivo because they lack the ability to clear intracllular parasites. Here, we test this theory by using a novel Txoplasma-mouse model capable of marking and tracking host cells that directly interact with parasites, even if the interaction is transient. Remarkably, we find that Toxopasma shows a strong predilection for interacting with neurons throughout CNS infection, even in highly manipulated circumstances such as IFN-γ depletion or when infecting with parasites resistant to a major mechanism by which murine astrocetes eliminate intracellar parasites in vivo. These findings suggest a new paradigm for the establishment of a successful, chronic CNS infection.
Cell motility is a fundamental biological phenomenon that underlies many physiological processes in health and disease, including wound healing, embryogenesis, immune response, and metastatic spread of cancer cells, to name a few. Understanding the full complexity of cell motility poses enormous challenges. One of them is multiple, sometimes redundant, sometimes complementary or even competing, mechanisms of motility. Many researchers hold the view, which we share, that the way to face this challenge is to study all these mechanisms thoroughly, and then proceed with a more holistic approach. In this paper, we systematically explore the ability of a minimal free-boundary model of actin-myosin contractility to reproduce observed mechanical states of the simplest motile cell. We find that the contractile mechanism of the cell critically depends on three dimensionless parameters: myosin-dependent contractility, a characteristic viscosity-adhesion length, and a rate of actins protrusion. When the contractility is sufficiently strong, cells break symmetry and move steadily along either straight or circular trajectories, and the motile behavior is sensitive to conditions at the cell boundary.
Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) networks are used to model natural phenomena studied in computational and systems biology. The topology of PPI networks can give new insight into the function of individual proteins, protein complexes and cellular machinery as a complex system. Advances in experimental bio-technology, including yeast-2-hybrid ( Y2H ), tandem affinity purification ( TAP ) and other high-throughput methods for PPI detection, have produced a growing amount of experimental PPI data. However, the levels of noise and incompleteness in experimental data are still a major concern. We present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of known interactions in PPI network obtained from experimental studies. We use it for predicting new interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments. This technique is the first to utilize currently the best fitting network model for PP networks, geometric graphs. Our approach achieves specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90% and we use it to assign confidence scores to physical protein-protein interactions. Using our approach, we predict 251 interactions in the human PP network, a statistically significant fraction of which correspond to protein pairs sharing common GO terms. Moreover, we validate a statistically important portion of our predicted interactions in BioGRID database and the newer release of BioGRIDs. The data and Matlab code implementing the methods are freely available from the web site: http://www. kuchaev. com/Denoising.
Trinucleotide repeat expansions within non-coding regions of RNA cause pathogenesis in a number of human diseases, including myotonic dystrophy type 1 ( DM1 ), fragile X-associate tremor and ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ), and Huntington's disease-like 2 ( HDL2 ). The causative mutations of DM1, SCA8 and HDL2 are CTG repeat expansions. In this study, we established transgenic flies that express CAG repeat expansions in the 3′ untranslated region of the dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase gene. These flies recapitulate major features of human CUG RNA expansion diseases in which anti-sense transcription occurs. Our findings suggest that co-expression of CAG and CTG expansions may contribute to pathogenesis through a fundamentally different mechanism from that of CTG expansion alone. Targeting these diseases at the transcriptional level may therefore be a promising therapeutic approach.
Soft rot disease is economically one of the most devastating bacterial diseases affecting plants worldwide. In this study, we present novel insights into the phylogeny and virulence of the soft rot model Pectobacterium wasabiae, which was isolated from a diseased potato stem in Finland in the early 1980s. Genomic approaches, including proteome and genome comparisons of all sequenced soft rot bacteria, revealed that SCC3193, previously included in the species P. carotovorum, can now be more accurately classified as P. wasabia. Genome comparison also revealed novel virulence determinants that may be related to life in planta or other specific environmental conditions. The novelties found in this work indicate that soft rot has been present, though unnoticed, in European and maybe in American potato fields for a long time. The genomic approaches and the comparison of the model strain of P. wereabiae to other sequenced PectOBacterium strains provides a solid basis for further investigation of the virulence, distribution and phylogeny of soft rot and other bacteria as well.
The mitochondrial protein repertoire varies depending on the cellular state. Protein component modifications caused by mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) depletion are related to a wide range of human diseases; however, little is known about how nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins ( mt proteome ) changes under such dysfunctional states. In this study, we investigated the systemic alterations of mtDNA-depleted ( ρ0 ) mitochondria by using network analysis of proteomics data. We discovered that up-regulated and down-regulated proteins were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes. The down-regulation network modules are involved in typical mitochondrial functions, while up-regulation proteins are responsible for mtDNA repair and regulation of mt protein expression and transport. Furthermore, comparisons of proteome and transcriptome data revealed that ρ 0 cells attempted to compensate for mt depletion by modulating the coordinated expression/transport of mt proteins. Our results demonstrate that mt protein composition changed to remodel the functional organization of mitochondrial protein networks in response to dysfunctional cellular states. Our findings provide a framework for understanding how cells respond to mitochondrial dysfunctions.
The molecular machinery of life relies on complex multistep processes that involve numerous individual transitions, such as molecular association and dissociation steps, chemical reactions, and mechanical movements. The corresponding transition rates can be typically measured in vitro but not in vivo. Here, we develop a general method to deduce the in-vivo rates from their in-Vitro values. The method has two basic components. First, we introduce the kinetic distance, a new concept by which we can quantitatively compare the kinetics of a multistem process in different environments. The kinetic distance depends logarithmically on the individual transition rates and can be interpreted in terms of the underlying free energy barriers. Second, we minimize the distance between the invitro and the in vivo process, imposing the constraint that the deduced rates reproduce a known global property such as the overall in-voivo speed. In order to demonstrate the predictive power of our method, we apply it to protein synthesis by ribosomes, a key process of gene expression. We describe the latter process by a codon-specific Markov model with three reaction pathways, corresponding to the initial binding of cognate, near-cognate, and non-cognitive tRNA, for which we determine all individual transition rate in vitro. The deduced in-virivo rates lead to smaller error frequencies than the known in-vinyl rates, primarily by an improved initial selection of tRNA. The approach introduced here is relatively simple from a computational point of view and can also be applied to any biomolecular process, for the in vitro and in vivo data.
Bacterial evolution is a complex process that involves a variety of genetic polymorphisms that can result in a wide range of mutations. In this study, we analyzed the short-term rates of mutation and recombination in Helicobacter pylori, a bacterial pathogen that infects humans over their entire lifespan. We found that the long-term rate of mutation is 1. 4×10−6 per nucleotide per year and that three times as many substitutions are introduced by recombination as by mutation. The long term mutation rate over millennia is 5–17-fold lower, partly due to the removal of non-synonymous mutations due to purifying selection. Comparisons with the recent literature show that short-time mutation rates vary dramatically in different bacterial species and can span a range of several orders of magnitude.
Photoreception in the mammalian retina is not restricted to rods and cones but extends to a subset of retinal ganglion cells expressing the photopigment melanopsin ( mRGCs ). These cells are known to drive such reflex light responses as circadian photoentrainment and pupillomotor movements. By contrast, until now there has been no direct assessment of their contribution to conventional visual pathways. Here, we address this deficit. Using new reporter lines, we show that mR GC projections are much more extensive than previously thought and extend across the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus ( dLGN ), origin of thalamo-cortical projection neurons. We continue to show that this input supports extensive physiological light responses in the dlGN and visual cortex in mice lacking rods+cones ( a model of advanced retinal degeneration ). Moreover, using chromatic stimuli to isolate melanopsins-derived responses in mice with an intact visual system, we reveal strong melanopsic input to the ∼40% of neurons in the LGN that show sustained activation to a light step. Our data suggest that melanopigments are required to accurately encode stimulus irradiance in the visual system. These findings identify mRGs as a potential origin for aspects of visual perception that have been hard to reconcile with the known capabilities of rods and cone photoreceptors.
HIV-1 infection is associated with an early and profound depletion of CD4+ T cells, a population that plays an indispensable role in the regulation of isotype switching and transepithelial transport of antibodies. In this study, we addressed whether the depletion of mucosal B cells results in altered humoral responses specific to antigens encountered at mucosal surfaces. We present evidence of a significant increase of IgM levels and a decrease of IgG/IgM and IgA ratios of antibodies specific to a variety of microbial and food pathogens. Importantly, intestinal secretions of antiretroviral therapy-treated HIV-1-infected individuals exhibited a significant elevation of IgA levels and decreased IgA and IgG ratios of antibody specific to different microbial and Food Antigens. The presented findings indicate that decreased competence of intestinal B cells for class switch recombination from IgM to other isotypes limiting their capacity to react to changing antigenic variety in the gut lumen may facilitate trans-epithelial translocation and systemic dissemination of microbial antigenes.
In biology any growing population eventually ends up saturating the carrying capacity of its environment determined e. g. by nutrient availability. The same is true for economies where finite pool of new customers and/or natural resources inevitably sets a limit on growth of companies. Population dynamics in saturated environments is often described by neutral “community drift” models sometimes with addition of deterministic differences in efficiency of utilizing resources. Here we introduce and model the saturated-state dynamics of populations exposed to episodic random collapses or extinctions. The emergent dynamics of our system is characterized by cyclic ‘‘diversity waves’’ triggered by collapses of globally dominating populations. The population diversity peaks at the beginning of each wave and exponentially decreases afterwards. Species abundances have bimodal time-aggregated distribution with the lower peak formed by populations of recently collapsed or newly introduced species while the upper peak - species that has not yet collapsed in the current wave. We show that diversity wave dynamics is robust with respect to variations in the rules of our model such as diffusion between multiple environments, species-specific growth and extinction rates, and bet-hedging strategies.
Chemotaxis is one of the most thoroughly studied paradigms of simple behavior. Due to significant competitive advantage conferred by chemotaxis and to high evolution rates in bacteria, the system is expected to be strongly optimized. Bacteria follow gradients by performing temporal comparisons of chemoeffector concentrations along their runs, a strategy which is most efficient given their size and swimming speed. Concentration differences are detected by a sensory system and transmitted to modulate rotation of flagellar motors, decreasing the probability of a tumble and reorientation if the perceived concentration change during a run is positive. Such regulation of tumble probability is of itself sufficient to explain chemotactic drift of a population up the gradient. Here we use computer simulations to predict existence of an additional mechanism of gradient navigation in E. coli. Based on the experimentally observed dependence of cell tumbling angle on the number of switching motors, we suggest that not only the tumbling probability but also the degree of reorientations during a tumble depend on the swimming direction along the gradient, and the difference in mean tumbling angles up and down the gradient predicted by our model is small, it results in a dramatic enhancement of the cellular drift velocity along the gradients. Our results suggest a new level of optimization of the chemotax system, which arises from the switching of several flagella and a resulting fine tuning of tumbling Angle. Similar strategy is likely to be used by other peritrichously flagllated bacteria, and indicates yet another level of evolutionary development of bacterial chemotaaxis.
The thymus provides a unique stromal microenvironment that is indispensable for the development of T cells that are both self-restricted and self-tolerant. Thymic epithelial cells ( TECs ) are essential for establishing central tolerance by expressing a diverse array of self-peptides that delete autoreactive thymocytes and/or divert thymocyte into the regulatory T cell lineage. Activation of the NFκB signaling pathway in mTEC precursors is essential for mTec maturation and proliferation resulting in proper medullary region formation. Here we show that the Stat3-mediated signaling pathway also plays a key role in mMTEC development and homeostasis. Stat3 activation promotes mTemic survival and is required for optimal medulla region formation and maintenance. Conversely, conditional deletion of Stat3 disrupts medullar region architecture and reduces the number of mTCs. Stat 3 signaling does not affect mT EC proliferation, but rather promotes survival of immature MHCIIloCD80lo mTic precursor. These findings imply that additional signaling pathways may contribute to the regulation of the thymic medulla. These results demonstrate that in addition to the NFkB pathway, Stat3 signaling plays an essential role in regulating mTIC cellularity.
Clostridium difficile is an emergent enteropathogen that is a major cause of nosocomial diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis. In an effort to understand the role of small noncoding RNAs ( sRNAs ) in the pathogenesis of C. difficiles, we used an in silico approach to identify 511 sRNA candidates in both intergenic and coding regions of the genome. In parallel, RNA–seq and differential 5′-end RNA-seq were used to identify 251 putative regulatory RNAs including 94 potential trans riboregulators located in intergenic regions, 91 cis-antisense RNAs, and 66 riboswitches. Expression of 35 sRNas was confirmed by gene-specific experimental approaches, and the expression of several sRNA was independently confirmed by genetic-specific approaches. These RNAs may be important for the survival in bacteriophage-rich gut communities. Altogether, this first experimental genome-wide identification of small-noncoding RNA-based regulation of gene expression in this emergent pathogen provides a firm basis for future RNome characterization and identification of molecular mechanisms of sRNA–based regulation. This study thus constitutes a basis for the future detailed functional characterization of RNAs in C. Difficile.
Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is a positive-sense single stranded RNA virus that causes chronic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis, often leading to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. The HCV core protein is a key proviral factor for hepatitis C virus. Despite its crucial role in the liver and HCV life cycle, little is known about the molecular mechanism of miR-122 expression regulation by HCV infection. In this study, we show that the HCV protein downregulates the expression of miRNA-122 by promoting its destabilization via the inhibition of GLD-2, a non-canonical cytoplasmic poly ( A ) polymerase. The decrease in miRNA expression resulted in the dysregulation of the known functions of the miRNA, including its proviral activity for HCV. Our results provide new insights into the regulatory role of HCV in controlling viral RNA abundance and miRNA functions through miR–122 stability modulation.
Trypanosomes are transmitted by tsetse flies and cause disease in humans and livestock throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Although various species show evidence of clinical tolerance to trypanosome infection, until now there has been no evidence of acquired immunity to natural infections. We discovered a distinct peak and decrease in age prevalence of T. brucei s. l. infection in wild African lions that is consistent with being driven by an exposure-dependent increase in cross-immunity following infections with the more genetically diverse species, T. congolense sensu latu. The causative agent of human sleeping sickness, T. bruceis rhodesiense, disappears by 6 years of age apparently in response to cross-infectity from other trypanoomes, including the non-pathogenic subspecies. These findings may suggest novel pathways for vaccinations against trypanomiasis despite the notoriously complex antigenic surface proteins in these parasites.
Coagulation, mediated by a family of serine proteases ( factors ) and a key group of blood cells ( platelets ), is directly relevant to human health and has been suggested by Somogyi and Greller to be an ideal candidate for in silico drug discovery. Insufficient coagulation is manifested in disorders such as haemophilia A ( 1 in 5, 000 live births ), haemphilia B ( 1, 30, 000 births ) or von Willebrand disease ( 1. 1, 000 deaths ). Conversely, unwanted clotting can be a serious complication following surgical intervention and is directly involved in coronary artery diseases, which collectively account for 38% of all deaths in North America. In this study, mathematical modeling and sensitivity analysis were used to explore the working hypothesis that mechanistic models of human cascades, despite model uncertainty, can be computationally screened for points of fragility, and that these sensitive mechanisms could serve as therapeutic targets. The predicted fragile mechanisms in the control are molecular targets in current anticoagulation preclinical development, clinical therapies, and clinical trials.
Phage therapy is the use of bacteriophages as antimicrobial agents for the control of pathogenic and other problem bacteria. It has previously been argued that successful application of phage therapy requires a good understanding of the non-linear kinetics of bacterial interactions. Here we combine experimental and modelling approaches to make a detailed examination of such kinetics for the important food-borne pathogen Campylobacter jejuni and a suitable virulent phage in an in vitro system. We find that even an apparently simplistic model fits the data surprisingly well, and we confirm that the so-called inundation and proliferation thresholds are likely to be of considerable practical importance to Phage therapy. We fit the model to time series data in order to estimate thresholds and rate constants directly, and a comparison of the fit for each culture reveals density-dependent features of phages infectivity that are worthy of further investigation. Our results illustrate how insight from empirical studies can be greatly enhanced by the use the kinetic properties of in vitro systems.
Schistosomiasis is a devastating disease caused by parasitic flatworms of the genus Schistosoma. It affects over 260 million people worldwide especially in tropical and sub-tropical regions. The freshwater snail Biomphalaria glabrata acts an obligate intermediate host for Schisto mansoni, which is the causative agent of intestinal schistosome infection in Africa and South America. This unique and long-standing host-parasite relationship presents an opportunity to study both the importance of conserved immunological features in novel immunological roles, as well as new immunological adaptations that have arisen to combat a very specific type of immunological challenge. In this study, we have characterized a snail Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) that we demonstrate is involved in regulating parasite infection in this snail. This TLR was identified as part of a peptide screen of snail immune cell surface proteins that differed in abundance between B. glabratata snails that differ in their compatibility phenotype to challenge by S. mansoni. Knockdown of BgTLR in BS-90 snails resulted in a significant alteration of the resistant phenotype, yielding patent infections in 43% of the normally resistant snails, which shed S. manoni cercariae 1-week before the susceptible controls. Our results represent the first functional characterization of a gastropod TLR, and demonstrate that BGTLR is an important snail immune receptor that is capable of influencing infection outcome following S. Mansoni challenge.
In French Polynesia, Aedes aegypti is the main vector of dengue, chikungunya and Zika, and Aedes polynesiensis is the primary vector of Bancroftian filariasis and a secondary vector of arboviruses. Tools for assessing the risk of disease transmission or for measuring the efficacy of vector control programmes are scarce. A promising approach to quantify the human-vector contact relies on the detection and quantification of antibodies directed against mosquito salivary proteins. An ELISA test was developed to detect and quantify the presence of immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) directed against proteins from salivaries gland extracts ( SGE ) of Aedes mosquitoes. In Tahiti and Moorea islands where Aedes species are present, the test revealed that 98% and 68% of individuals have developed IgG directed against Aedes salivariosis SGE, respectively. By comparison, ELISA tests conducted on a cohort of people from metropolitan France, not exposed to these Aedes mosquito species, indicated that 97% of people had no IgG. The IgG response to Salivary gland extracts seems to be a valid and specific biomarker of human exposure to the bites of Ae. ae. polynesis. This new immuno-epidemiological tool will enhance our understanding of people exposure to mosquito bites, facilitate the identification of areas where disease transmission risk is high and permit us to evaluate the effectiveness of novel vector control strategies in Pacific islands.
Pathogenicity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) has been attributed to its facile adaptation to the intracellular milieu of human macrophages. To explore this process, we asked whether adaptation also required interference with the metabolic machinery of the host cell. Temporal profiling of the metabolic flux, in cells infected with differently virulent mycobacterial strains, confirmed that this was indeed the case. Subsequent analysis identified the core subset of host reactions that were targeted. This synthesis then provided an axis where both host- and pathogen-derived factors converged to define determinants of pathogenicity. Consequently, whereas the requirement for macrophage survival sensitized TB susceptibility to the glycemic status of the individual, mediation by pathogen ensured that the virulence properties of the infecting strain also contributed towards the resulting pathology.
Meiosis generates haploid gametes from diploid cells by coupling a single round of replication with two successive chromosomes segregation events: meiosis I, in which homologous chromosomes segregate away from each other and meiosis II, in in which sister chromatids are partitioned. To ensure proper homolog disjunction, physical linkages must be introduced between homologs by processes that occur during meiotic prophase: homolog pairing, the assembly of the synaptonemal complex ( SC ), and crossover recombination. In budding yeast, the ZHP-3 protein is required for crossover formation. We show that ZHP3 localization is highly dynamic during meiosis in this organism, and that the protein shifts from along the length of the SC to an asymmetric localization on the SC and eventually becomes restricted to foci that mark crossover recombinating events. We propose that the chromosome segregation defect results from an inability to properly remodel chromosomes in response to crossovers.
Aedes albopictus is a tropical invasive species which in the last decades spread worldwide, also colonizing temperate regions of Europe and US, where it has become a public health concern due to its ability to transmit exotic arboviruses, as well as severe nuisance problems caused by its aggressive daytime outdoor biting behaviour. While several studies have been carried out in order to predict the potential limits of the species expansions based on eco-climatic parameters, few studies have so far focused on the specific effects of these variables in shaping its micro-geographic abundance and dynamics. The present study investigated the effect of climatic, environmental, land-cover and anthropogenic variables on Ae. alboptus abundance in metropolitan and sub-urban/rural sites in Rome ( Italy ), which was colonized in 1997 and is nowadays one of the most infested metropolitan areas in Southern Europe. Results showed an association between highly anthropized habitats and high adult abundance both in the metropolitan and the Sub-Urban/Rural areas, with a bimodal seasonal dynamics with a second peak of abundance in autumn, due to heavy rains occurring in the preceding weeks in association with permissive temperatures. The results provide useful indications to prioritize public mosquito control measures in temperate urban areas where nuisance, human-mosquito contact and risk of local arbvirus transmission are likely higher, and highlight potential public health risks also after the summer months typically associated with high mosquito densities.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) is one of the most pathogenic mycobacteria in humans and animals. The pathogenicity of Mtb depends on the interaction between the host and the bacterium. Phthiocerol dimycocerosates ( DIM ) play a major role in the pathogenesis of this bacterium and are thought to play a role in modulating host immune responses. However, their cellular and molecular mechanisms of action remain unknown. Using Mtb mutants deleted for genes involved in DIM biosynthesis, we demonstrated that DIM participate both in the receptor-dependent phagocytosis of the host cell and the prevention of phagosomal acidification. The effects of DIM required a state of the membrane fluidity as demonstrated by experiments conducted with cholesterol-depleting drugs that abolished the differences in phagosome acidification efficiency and phagosomes acidification observed between wild-type and mutant strains. The insertion of a new cholesterol-pyrene probe in living cells demonstrated that the polarity of the plasma membrane hydrophobic core changed upon contact with Mtb whereas the lateral diffusion of cholesterol was unaffected. This effect was dependent on DIM and was consistent with the effect observed following DIM insertion in model membrane. Therefore, we propose that the DIM-induced changes in lipid ordering favour the entry of the pathogen to its ecological niche.
The brain is a complex system organized at multiple spatial scales, and the concerted interactions between these multiple scales of organization are probably crucial for the emergence of its computational power. For this reason, finding an appropriate mathematical description of the brain at the mesoscopic scale is of fundamental importance for unveiling its emergent properties. Yet, many interesting problems in neuroscience involve the study of mesoscopic networks composed of a few tens of neurons. Nonetheless, mathematical methods that correctly describe networks of small size are still rare, and this prevents us to make progress in understanding neural dynamics at these intermediate scales. Here we develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small neural circuits composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons. We study the local bifurcations of their neural activity with an approach that is largely analytically tractable, and we numerically determine the global bifurbcations. We find that for strong inhibition these networks give rise to very complex dynamics, caused by the formation of multiple branching solutions of the neural dynamics equations that emerge through spontaneous symmetry-breaking. This qualitative change of the network is a finite-size effect of the system, that reveals qualitative and previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation. The most important consequence of spontaneous symmetry breaking is the ability of mesoscopic networks to regulate their degree of functional heterogeneity, which is thought to help reducing the detrimental effect of noise correlations on cortical information processing.
Leishmania is a parasite of the Viannia subgenus that infects humans and is transmitted through the blood of infected individuals. The presence of Leishmania in extralesional tissues is important for determining the status of infection, monitoring of treatment and to resolve gaps in the understanding of the natural history of human infection. The ability to detect and quantify live leishmania using molecular tools would allow crucial gaps in human infection with Leishmaniasis to be addressed. The identification and quantification of LeISHmania using genetic targets and amplification methods have been utilized to establish parasite viability and estimate parasite burden in dermal leishmania patients. The feasibility of discriminating parasite viability by PCR was evaluated in relation with luciferase activity of luc transfected intracellular amastigotes in dose-response assays of Glucantime cytotoxicity. The finding of live parasites in blood monocytes, tonsil swabs, aspirates of normal skin and lesions of 28 cutaneous and 2 mucocutaneous patients with dermal disease and no clinical evidence of mucosal involvement demonstrates that the prevalence of parasites in normal tissues may extend to subclinical infection. 7SLRNA genes and transcripts are informative targets for clinical and epidemiologic studies to elucidate the natural histories of human dermal infection and the participation of humans in transmission.
In eukaryotes, each cell type follows a characteristic, spatio-temporally regulated DNA replication program. Histone modifications ( HMs ) and chromatin binding proteins ( CBPs ) are fundamental for a faithful progression and completion of this process. However, no individual HM is strictly indispensable for origin function, suggesting that HMs may act combinatorially in analogy to the histone code hypothesis for transcriptional regulation. In contrast to gene expression however, the relationship between combinations of chromatin features and DNA replication timing has not yet been demonstrated. Here, by exploiting a comprehensive data collection consisting of 95 CBPs and HMs we investigated their combinatorial potential for the prediction of DNA replication time in Drosophila using quantitative statistical models. We found that while combinations of CBPs exhibit moderate predictive power for replication timing, pairwise interactions between HMs lead to accurate predictions genome-wide that can be locally further improved by CBPs. Independent feature importance and model analyses led us to derive a simplified, biologically interpretable model of the relationships between chromatin landscape and replication timing reaching 80% of the full model accuracy using six model terms. Finally, we show that pairwise combinations of HMs are able to predict differential replication timing across different cell types. All in all, our work provides support to the existence of combinatoric HM patterns for DNA replication and reveal cell-type independent key elements thereof, whose experimental investigation might contribute to elucidate the regulatory mode of this fundamental cellular process.
Dengue fever, caused by the flavivirus Dengue virus ( DENV ), is the most important and widespread arthropod-borne viral disease, causing an estimated 392 million human infections per year. Dengue is most prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions of the globe, where ecologic and epidemiologic conditions sustain virus circulation. We have characterized the introduction, establishment and drivers of dengue virus spread in Brazil using a combination of genetic and epidemiological data. By applying a flexible phylogeographic approach to full genome sequences, our analyses strongly support a human role for the spread of DENV through aerial transportation of humans and/or vector mosquitoes, rather than Aedes aegypti infestation rates or geographical distances, in the dispersal of the virus.
Understanding how neural populations encode sensory information thereby leading to perception and behavior ( i. e. the neural code ) remains an important problem in neuroscience. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms by which neural activities are not independent but are actually correlated with one another. Using a combination of mathematical modeling and in vivo electrophysiology, we found that differences in the antagonistic center-surround receptive field ( RF ) organization across three parallel sensory maps influence correlations between the activities of electrosensory pyramidal neurons. Our results show that very different combinations of RF center size and overlap give rise to similar levels of correlation because of similar relative amounts of positively and negatively correlated inputs. Importantly, including previously published experimental data on differences between the RF center and surround structure across the three segments gave rise to the same levels of correlations. Our study thus predicts that the similar level of correlations observed experimentally arise because cells receive similar relative levels of positive and negative correlated inputs, despite very different RF center organization.
Neural populations typically show correlated variability over repeat presentation of the same stimulus. This “noise” is typically correlated between pairs of cells, and a question with rich history in neuroscience is how these noise correlations impact the population's ability to encode the stimulus. Here, we consider a very general setting for population coding, investigating how information varies as a function of noise correlations, with all other aspects of the problem – neural tuning curves, etc. – held fixed. This work yields unifying insights into the role of information with respect to noise correlations. These are summarized in the form of theorems, and illustrated with numerical examples involving neurons with diverse tuning curves. We show that a diverse set of correlation structures can improve coding. Many of these violate the SR, as do experimentally observed correlations. There is structure to this diversity: we prove that the optimal correlation structures must lie on boundaries of the possible set of noise correlation. This provides a novel set of necessary and sufficient conditions, under which the coding performance ( in the presence of noise ) will be as good as it would be if there were no noise present at all.
Chronic coinfections of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently fail to respond to antibiotic treatment, leading to significant patient morbidity and mortality. Currently, the impact of interspecies interaction on S. aureu antibiotic susceptibility remains poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that P. aeruginsosa alters S. Aureus susceptibility to bactericidal antibiotics in a variable, strain-dependent manner and identify 3 independent interactions responsible for antagonizing or potentiating antibiotic activity. We find that the production of each of these factors varies between clinical isolates and corresponds to the capacity of each isolate to alter S.Aureus antibiotic susceptibility. Furthermore, we show that vancomycin treatment of a S. anureus mouse burn infection is potentiated by the presence of a LasA-producing P. auruginos population. These findings demonstrate that the genotype of coinfecting P. anurugins is strongly influenced by interactions between bacterial species, which may have major implications for future susceptibility determination and antibiotic treatment of polymicrobial infections.
Dengue is the most common arboviral infection in the world. A subset of patients with symptomatic infections develops potentially life-threatening complications in which bleeding and vascular plasma leakage are the most frequent symptoms. Thrombocytopenia is an early and consistent feature of dengue infection and dengues complications are usually preceded by a rapid drop in platelet count. The binding of the coagulation protein von Willebrand factor ( VWF ) to platelets and removal of sialic acid ( desialylation ) are two well-known mechanisms of platelet clearance, but whether these conditions also contribute to thromboctopenias in denguing infection is unknown. In this study, we show that dengued patients have higher plasma concentrations of plasma VWF antigen and active VWF, but that circulating platelets had also bound more VWF to their membrane. We further show that excessive binding of VWF by activated endothelial cells results in excessive platelet sialidase to the platelet surface. Our data demonstrate that excessive platelets binding to platelets results in neuraminidase-mediated platelet desialyration and platelet dysfunction. Oseltamivir might be a novel treatment option for severe thrombusocytenia in severe dengu infection.
A “bidirectional gene pair” comprises two adjacent genes whose transcription start sites are neighboring and directed away from each other. The intervening regulatory region is called a “bidirectional promoter. ” These promoters are often associated with genes that function in DNA repair, with the potential to participate in the development of cancer. No connection between these gene pairs and cancer has been previously investigated. Using the database of spliced-expressed sequence tags ( ESTs ), we identified the most complete collection of human transcripts under the control of bidirectional promoters. A rigorous screen of the spliced EST data identified new genes regulated by these promoters, many of which functioned as alternative promoters or regulated novel transcripts. Additionally, we show a highly significant enrichment of bidirectal promoters in genes implicated in somatic cancer. The repeated use of this promoter structure in the human genome suggests it could regulate co-expression patterns among groups of genes.
Sex is a universal feature of eukaryotic organisms, yet tremendous variation in sex determination mechanisms exists even among closely related species, or among individuals within a species. In several taxa where sex is established at fertilization by genetic factors, such as in many vertebrates and insects, an entire chromosome co-segregates with the sex determining genes ( sex chromosomes ). Sex chromosomes evolved from ordinary autosomes that acquired a sex-determining function and stopped recombining. Over evolutionary time, sex chromosomes differentiate, and the sex-limited chromosome—which is entirely sheltered from recombination—degenerates. The evolutionary forces driving this diversity of sex determination mechanism are little understood, and most of our knowledge of sex chromosome biology comes from a few model species, including the Diptera fly Drosophila melanogaster. Here, we use whole-genome analysis in 37 species belonging to 22 different families of Diptera to infer the presence and identity of sex chromosomes. We identify over a dozen different sex chromosome configurations, and we show that dosage compensation has evolved multiple times in flies, consistently through up-regulation of the single X in males. However, X chromosomes generally show a deficiency of genes with male-biased expression, possibly reflecting sex-specific selective pressures. These species thus provide a rich resource to study sex chromosomes biology in a comparative manner and show that similar selective forces have shaped the unique evolution of sex sex chromosomes in diverse fly taxa.
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) is an emerging mosquito-borne pathogen that is linked to the development of severe fetal abnormalities that include spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, hydranencephaly, and microcephaly. We recently demonstrated the first congenital Zika virus infection in the United States. In this study, we investigated maternal blood samples from mothers who gave birth in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012 to babies with microcephalic abnormalities. ZikV showed a trend toward significance with microcyphaly and ZIKVs IgM and IgG antibodies were more likely to deliver healthy babies than mothers who were negative for ZIKG antibodies. We also found evidence of ZIK virus positive cases and associated microcephy in Hawaii as early as 2009.
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a necrotizing skin disease which has been reported in over thirty countries. The causative agent of BU is an environmental mycobacteria, Mycobacterium ulcerans ( MU ). The mode of transmission to humans is still not clear although a few hypotheses have been advanced and tested. In this study, we attempted to source-track MU infections to specific water bodies by matching VNTR profiles of MU in human samples to those in the environment. Environmental samples were collected from 10 water bodies in four BU endemic communities in the Ashanti region, Ghana. Four VN TR loci in MU Agy99 genome, were used to genotype environmental MU ecovars, and those from 14 confirmed BU patients within the same study area. Length polymorphism was confirmed with sequencing. MU was present in the 3 different types of water bodies, but significantly higher in biofilm samples. Four MU genotypes, designated W, X, Y and Z, were typed in both human and environmental samples. Other reported genotypes were only found in water bodies. Animal trapping identified 1 mouse with lesion characteristic of BU, which was confirmed as MU infection. Our findings suggest that patients may have been infected from community associated water bodies and may be acting as reservoirs. Further, we present evidence that small mammals within endemic communities could be susceptible to MU infections. M. ulceran transmission could involve several routes where humans have contact with risk environments, which may be further compounded by water bodies acting as vehicles for disseminating strains.
The number of species naturally inhabiting a location ( native species richness ) is ultimately driven by the combined processes of speciation, extinction, and immigration, and proximately by the suite of environmental, ecological, historical, and evolutionary factors that determine the interplay of these processes. An important feature of the Anthropocene is the extent to which human activities have enhanced immigration, such that species are being intentionally or accidentally transported and introduced to areas well beyond the biogeographic barriers that normally prevent their spread, and at unprecedentedly high rates. This is known as colonisation pressure, which is calculated simply as the sum of the number of alien species introduced to a defined location ( e. g. country, state, island, 1° grid cell ) over some period of time ( typically the full period over which introductions have occurred, although sometimes subsets of this period are specified ). Our results demonstrate that colonisation pressures is key to understanding alien species richness, show that areas of high native bird species richness are not resistant to colonisation by alien species at the global scale, and emphasise the likely ongoing threats to global environments from introductions of species.
The nucleolus is the largest visible structure in the mammalian cell nucleus and the site of ribosome biogenesis. As such, its activity is a key determinant of a cell's capacity to grow and proliferate, and its size and morphology are used as clinical markers of cancer. However, its ability to generate nucleosome-like nucleoprotein complexes suggests a more generalized role in chromatin structure. We previously showed that extensive depletion of UBF reduced the number of actively transcribed ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) genes, but had little effect on rRNA synthesis rates or cell proliferation, leaving open the question of its requirement for RPI transcription. Using gene deletion in mouse, we now show that UBF is indeed essential for rRNA gene transcription, as well as for the formation of the RPI pre-initiation complex and the active epigenetic state of these genes. We also show that in the absence of uBF the rRNA genes can maintain a potentially active state, but not heterochromatinization. Unexpectedly, inactivation of rRNA transcription does not interfere with the expression of the hundreds of transcription factors implicated in ribosomes biogenesis, showing that rRNAs do not coordinate the gene expression required for ribosomatization. Finally, elimination of UBD reveals somatic nucleolar precursor bodies that are spatially distinct from chromosomal rDNA loci.
Morphogens—secreted molecules that spread from their source of synthesis and activate signaling in distant cells to direct tissue patterning—were proposed more than a century ago. However, evidence that resolved this controversy was not provided until the mid-1990’s, and was based on landmark studies in Drosophila on the evolutionarily conserved signaling pathways Wingless/Wnt and Decapentaplegic/BMP. Wnt signaling is essential for growth and patterning of tissues in metazoans and is deregulated in many human diseases. Herein, we tested this foundational principle in the adult intestine, where Wingless signaling gradients coincide with all major boundaries between compartments. We find that the critical roles of Wingless during adult intestinal development, which include regulation of target gene activation, boundary formation, stem cell proliferation, epithelial cell fate specification, muscle differentiation, gut folding, and signaling crosstalk with the DecapENTaplegics pathway, are all disrupted by tethering of Wg. These findings provide new evidence that supports the requirement for the direct, long-range action of Wgt in tissue patterned, with relevance for animal development, tissue homeostasis and Wnt-driven disease.
Group A streptococcus ( GAS ) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality globally. The ability of GAS to accumulate cell surface plasmin activity is an essential step in the initiation of invasive GAS disease. A key process in GAS pathogenesis is the ability to accumulate the serine protease plasmmin. Plasminogen is able to degrade fibrin clots, connective tissue, extracellular matrix ( ECM ) and adhesion proteins, leading to widespread tissue destruction. The role of host activators of plasinogen in this process is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that the urokinase-type plasmitogen activator ( uPA ) contributes to plasmine recruitment and subsequent invasive Gasm disease in vivo. In the absence of a source of host plaspotters, streptokinase ( Ska ) was required to facilitate the acquisition of cell surface Plaspoters by GAS. However, in absence of Ska, host activator were sufficient to promote cell surface accumulation of plasmpoters. Furthermore, GAS were able to mediate a significant increase in the activation of zymogen pro-uPA in human plasma. These findings have significant implications for our understanding of Gasm pathogenesis, and research aimed at therapeutic targeting of plASminogen activation in invasive bacterial infections may therefore aid in the development of therapeutics to control GAS infection.
The H. pylori cag pathogenicity island ( cag PAI ) encodes components of a type IV secretion system ( T4SS ) that translocates the bacterial oncoprotein CagA into gastric epithelial cells, and CagL is a specialized component of the cag T4 SS that binds the host receptor α5β1 integrin. In the current study, we used a mass spectrometry-based approach to reveal co-purification of CagH, CagI ( another integrin-binding protein ) and CAGH ( a protein with weak sequence similarity ). Scanning electron microscopy studies reveal that these proteins are involved in the formation of pili at the interface between H. Pylori and gastric cells. These proteins are required for the translocation and IL-8 secretion by gastric cell lines, and the C-terminal motifs of these proteins contain a conserved hexapeptide motif that is critical for pilus dimensions. These results highlight the important functions of these unique H. coli cag proteins and highlight the marked variation that exists among bacterial T4S components.
Bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) is a chronic disease of cattle caused by Mycobacterium bovis, a member of the MycObacterium tuberculosis complex group of bacteria. Vaccination of cattle might offer a long-term solution for controlling the disease and priority has been given to the development of a cattle vaccine against bTB. Identification of biomarkers in tuberculosis research remains elusive and the goal is to identify host correlates of protection. We hypothesized that by studying global gene expression we could identify in vitro predictors of protection that could help to facilitate vaccine development. Calves were vaccinated with BCG or with a heterologous BCG prime adenovirally vectored subunit boosting protocol. Protective efficacy was determined after M. bovi challenge. RNA was prepared from PPD-stimulated PBMC prepared from vaccinated-protected, vaccinated-unprotected and unvaccinated control cattle prior to M. tuberculosis challenge. 668 genes were differentially expressed in vaccinated- protected cattle compared with vaccinated-non-vaccinated and un-vaccine control cattle. Cytokine-cytokines receptor interaction was the most significant pathway related to this dataset with IL-22 expression identified as the dominant surrogate of protection besides INF-γ. Finally, the expression of these candidate genes identified by RNA-seq was evaluated by RT-qPCR in an independent set of PBMC samples from BCG vaccinated and un vaccinated calves. This experiment confirmed the importance of IL-23 as predictor of vaccine efficacy.
Microtubule organizing centers ( MTOCs ) are found in most differentiated cells, but how these structures regulate microtubule organization and dynamics is largely unknown. We optimized a tissue-specific degradation system to test the role of the essential centrosomal microtubulin ring complex ( γ-TuRC ) and AIR-1/Aurora A at the apical ncMTOC, where they both localize in Caenorhabditis elegans embryonic intestinal epithelial cells. Surprisingly, microtubules are still robustly organized at apical MTOC, but microtubulins are still present in the cell upon depletion of other known microtubular regulators, including TPXL-1 and TPX2, ZYG-9/ch-TOG, PTRN-1, NOCA-1gut, and NOCASAP. However, loss of GIP-1 removed a subset of dynamic EBP-2/EB1–marked microtubuli, and the remaining dynamic microtubula grew faster. Together, these results suggest that different microtubulo-specific MTOC proteins use discrete proteins for their function, and that the apico-specific microtubulus organizing center ( nCMTOC ) is composed of distinct populations of γ–TuRC-dependent and -independent microtubulations that compete for a limited pool of resources.
Human genomes are composed of 23 chromosomes, each of which is inherited from one parent. The genetic material used to sequence these 23 chromosomes has been used for decades to study the genetic basis of disease. However, most sequencing technologies do not directly delineate the nucleotide content of the maternal and paternal copies of each of the 23 chromosomes. This is due to the costs and complexities of doing so. We compared 11 different widely-used approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available ‘Genome-In-A-Bottle’ ( GIAB ) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard. The phasing strategies we compared included laboratory-based assays that prepare DNA in unique ways to facilitate phasing as well as purely computational approaches that seek to reconstruct phase information from general sequencing reads and constructs or population-level haplotype frequency information obtained through a reference panel of haplotypes. Our analyses showed that population-based phasing performance is enhanced with the addition of genome-wide read data, and that the inclusion of parental genotype data within a population- based phasing strategy can provide as much as a ten-fold reduction in phasing errors.
Type-III protein secretion systems are utilized by Gram-negative pathogens to secrete building blocks of the bacterial flagellum, virulence effectors from the cytoplasm into host cells, and structural subunits of the needle complex. The flagella secretion apparatus utilizes both the energy of the proton motive force and ATP hydrolysis to energize substrate unfolding and translocation. We report that type-III secretion can efficiently occur in the absence of ATPase activity in both flagelar and virulence-associated secretion systems. We additionally show that increased proton force bypassed the requirement of the Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 virulence protein-export system for secretion. Our data support a role for type- III ATPases in enhancing secretion efficiency under limited secretion substrate concentrations and reveal the dispensability of ATPases activity in the secretion process.
Bistability plays a central role in the gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) controlling many essential biological functions, including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control. However, establishing the network topologies that can exhibit bistability remains a challenge, in part due to the exceedingly large variety of GRNs that exist for even a small number of components. We begin to address this problem by employing chemical reaction network theory in a comprehensive in silico survey of more than 40, 000 simple networks that can be formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins ( assuming only the most elementary biochemical processes ). We find that there exist reaction rate constants leading to bistable networks in ∼90% of these GRN models, including several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistables, and the majority of which could only be identified as bistably through an original subnetwork-based analysis. A topological sorting of the two-gene family of networks based on the presence or absence of biochemical reactions reveals eleven minimal bistsable networks ( i. e., bist-like networks that are not bistingable ). The large number of previously unknown bistory network topology suggests that the capacity for switch-like behavior in GRNs arises with relative ease and is not easily lost through network evolution.
Orofacial clefting is amongst the most common birth defects, with both genetic and environmental components. Although numerous studies have been undertaken to investigate the complexities of the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition, this factor remains incompletely understood. Here, we describe mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofamic cleft in humans and mice, and define the first molecular explanation for cor triatriatum sinister in humans. Our findings highlight hyaluronidase enzymes as playing a vital role in both human and mouse development, and in particular have revealed a previously unrecognized pathway involved in the pathogenesis of oroffacial clefts, myopia and cor triathea in humans, which may ultimately be amenable to treatment therapies.
In mammals, auditory hair cells do not regenerate and therefore stereocilia bundles endure sound-induced deflections throughout an organism's life. However, the molecular mechanisms of this regenerative process are unknown, even though it is crucial for maintenance of hearing and vision. We developed a novel implementation of backscatter electron scanning microscopy to visualize simultaneously immuno-gold particles and stereocilium links, both of only a few nanometers in diameter. We show that functional, mechanotransduction-mediating tip links have at least two molecular compositions, containing either PCDH15 or CDH23. During regeneration, shorter tip links containing nearly equal amounts of PCDH 15 at both ends appear first. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings demonstrate that these transient PCDH10–CDH23 tip links mediate mechanotrural currents of normal amplitude but abnormal Ca2+-dependent decay ( adaptation ). The mature PCDH16/CDH15 tip link composition is re-established later, concomitant with complete recovery of adaptation. Thus, our findings provide a molecular mechanism for regeneration and maintenance of mechanosensory function in postmitotic auditory hair cell types and could help identify elusive components of the mechanotreceptors.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent arbovirus causing a spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from mild dengue fever ( DF ) to more life threatening forms such as dengu hemorrhagic fever ( DHF ). The mechanisms that trigger transition from mild DF to DHF are not fully understood, hampering the design of effective treatments for DHF. We performed a mass spectrometry-based metabolomic profiling of sera from adult DF and DHF patients at the critical and recovery phases of infection. There were 29 differentially expressed metabolites identified between DF/DHF patients at both the critical phase and recovery phase. These include bile acids, purines, acylcarnitines, phospholipids, and amino acids. Bile acids were observed up to 5 fold higher among DHF compared to DF patients and were significantly correlated to the higher levels of aspartate transaminase ( AST ) and alanine transaminases ( ALT ). Uric acid, the most abundant antioxidant in the blood, was observed to be 1. 5 fold lower among DHFs than DF patients. This could result in decreased capacity of endogenous antioxidant defense and elevated oxidative stress among DHFS patients. Our results provide insights into the mechanisms of DHF pathogenesis, alluding to possible novel therapeutic targets to alleviate DHF in the clinic.
The metabolic pathway of purine nucleotides in parasitic protozoa is a potent drug target for treatment of parasitemia. Guanosine 5’-monophosphate reductase ( GMPR ) is a catalytic enzyme that catalyzes the reductive deamination of guanosine5’monophate ( GMP ) to inosine 5'-monphosphate ( IMP ) in the presence of NADPH. GMPR has been identified in various species from bacteria to mammals, and has been structurally characterized by X-ray crystallography, which indicated that GMPR belongs to the family of ( β/α ) 8 barrel proteins also known as TIM barrel proteins. However, only a few studies on protozoan GMPR have been reported at present. In this study, we identified the recombinant protein of Trypanosoma brucei, a causative protozoal parasite of African trypanosomiasis. We characterized its recombinant gene to investigate the enzymatic differences between GMPRs of the parasite and its host animals. We found that the GMPR was distinct from those of mammalian GMPR in terms of protein structure, enzymatics, and cytological distribution. Importantly, the addition of monovalent cations such as K+ and NH4+ to the enzyme increased the activity of T. bruceis GMPR, whereas none of the mammalian GM PR’s was affected by these cations. Our results suggest that ribavirin is a novel inhibitor of trypaosomal GMPR activity, and thus ribavir is a potential new therapeutic agent against African trypansomiasis in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that the mechanism of GMPR is distinct from that in the host organisms, and further investigation will be necessary to examine this possibility.
Sodium channel blockers are small organic molecules that bind inside the pore of sodium channels to block the passage of sodium ions. In clinical settings, sodium channels are also used to ease surgery or acute pain resulting from trauma. While there are many sodium channel blockers, most medically relevant drugs are preferentially expressed in different tissue. Most sodium channel blocking drugs target all subtypes, but the development of selective channel blockers would allow a new range of clinical applications and a decrease in side effects. For example, there is significant interest in increasing the specificity of drugs for the channel subtypes found in pain receptor neurons as a way to combat chronic pain. However, developing subtype-selective Nav channel blockers requires the generation of in-depth knowledge of the location of binding and the route of entry of existing drugs in order to assess how small sequence differences in the subtypes can be exploited. Here we use molecular dynamics simulations to elucidate the position at which sodium channels bind benzocaine and phenytoin, and to understand how these drugs find their way into resting channels. We show that both drugs have two likely binding sites in the pores characterised by nonspecific, hydrophobic interactions: one just above the activation gate, and one at the entrance to the lateral lipid filled fenestrations. Our simulations highlight the importance of a number of residues in directing drugs into and through the fenesthetic fenesting, and in forming the drug binding sites.
The ability to mount specific inflammatory responses is pivotal to the fight against pathogens. Citrobacter rodentium has been well appreciated as a model to study the processes that lead to the activation of innate and adaptive components of the intestinal immune system. During the early phase of infection, the cytokine IL-22 is essential to confer host protection and to induce the induction of protective host responses. However, the cell type-specific contribution of MyD88 in protecting the host against intestinal bacterial infection is only poorly understood. In the present study, we demonstrate that functional expression of myD88 is sufficient to activate intestinal dendritic cells ( DC ) and to activate the early group 3 innate lymphoid cell ( ILC3 ) response as well as the development of colonic Th17/Th1 cells in response to infection with C. rodentium. In contrast, restricting MyD 88 signaling to several other cell types, including macrophages ( MO ), T cells or ILC2, did not induce efficient intestinal immune responses upon infection. Importantly, we observed that the functional expression in DC also partially protected the mice during intestinal infection, which was associated with enhanced epithelial barrier integrity and increased expression of the antimicrobial peptide RegIIIγ and the acute phase protein SAA1 by epithelial cells. Together, our data suggest that functional MyD8 signaling in DC and IEC is both essential and sufficient to induce a full spectrum of host responses upon intestinal infection with Citrobus rodentium, highlighting the importance of the host defense in the intestine.
Onchocerciasis is a parasitic disease caused by the filarial worm Onchocerca volvulus. The disease is endemic in West Africa, where mass treatment with ivermectin has largely eliminated the disease from 11 West African foci. The aim of elimination is to eliminate the disease in the next three years. The current guidelines for defining when to stop mass treatment are based on the use of a rapid diagnostic test ( RDT ) for detection of IgG4 against Ov16. The RDT has recently been developed as a practical, convenient, and standardized alternative for use in the field. The ONCHOSIM model was extended with new output on the Ov16 antibody serostatus of individuals. Seroconversion was assumed to be triggered by the first worm establishing in the host, with seroconversion occurring either before maturation, after maturation or only after the start of mf production. The association between either of these indicators and the model-predicted probability of elimination was not influenced much by the assumed treatment coverage levels, but was found to depend on baseline endemicity levels, assumptions regarding the trigger and dynamics of the antibody response, and diagnostic test characteristics ( sensitivity and specificity ). Better understanding of seroprevalence data is required for accurate interpretation of seropic data and more precise estimation of endpoint for MDA.
The prion, the transmissible agent mediating spongiform encephalopathies, consists mainly if not entirely of PrPSc, an aggregate of conformers of the host protein PrPC ( cellular prion protein ). Prions are swa-sensitive, meaning that they can infect PK1 cells in the presence of the inhibitor swainsonine ( swa ), but after propagation in brain, they become swa resistant and even swa dependent. We hypothesized that prions, which are naturally swa sensitive, could be selected from a range of variants with different properties, from which the fittest are selected in a particular environment. We investigated whether it was nonetheless possible to select swainsonsine-resistant variants by propagation in the absence of swa. We found that the misfolded PrP protein associated with a swa–dependent variant was less rapidly cleared in PK1 cell lines than that associated with its drug-sensitive counterpart, indicating that likely structural differences of the misfungal PrP underlie the properties of the prions.
All biological evolution takes place in a space of possible genotypes and their phenotypes. The structure of this space defines the evolutionary potential and limitations of an evolving system. Metabolism is one of the most ancient and fundamental evolving systems, sustaining life by extracting energy from extracellular nutrients. Here we study metabolism’s potential for innovation by analyzing an exhaustive genotype-phenotype map for a space that encodes all possible subsets of 51 reactions in central carbon metabolism. Using flux balance analysis, we predict the viability of these metabolisms on 10 different carbon sources. Although viable metabolisms with any one phenotype comprise a tiny fraction of genotype space, their absolute numbers exceed 109 for some phenotypes, and they typically form a single network of genotypes that extends from each other through a series of single reaction changes. We here complement sampling-based analyses through an exhaustive enumeration of all 2. 25 x 1015 genotypes in the subspace whose reactions are involved in central metabolism. We find that the minimal distance of the genotype networks associated with different phenotypes is small, such that one can reach metabolisms that have novel phenotypes – viable on new carbon sources – through one or few genotypic changes. Exceptions to these principles exist for those metabolisms whose complexity ( number of reactions ) is close to the minimum needed for viability. Increasing metabolic complexity enhances the potential for both evolutionary conservation and evolutionary innovation.
The Triatoma dimidiata complex is one of the broadest distributed triatomine species complexes transmitting Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. The complex is found in a variety of domestic, peri-urban and sylvatic habitats. In the wild, it has been found in tropical, perennial, and deciduous forest, caves, grasslands, and modified habitats. The present study analyzes the population genetics of the complex from human domestic habitats at community, sub-regional ( based on demographics, ecological, and anthropic components ) and regional ( based in fragmented landscapes ( having a gradient of anthropic modification ), and to identify evolving differences in parasite populations, a key component of vector capacity. This study supports previous ecological niche evidence for the complex´s origin surrounding the Tehuantepec Isthmus, and provides evidence for recent divergence of three primary dimidiatus haplogroups, with differential T. cruzi infection frequency and DTU specificity, important components of vector population capacity.
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a rodent-borne infectious disease caused mainly by two hantaviruses in China: Hantaan virus and Seoul virus. Environmental factors can significantly affect the risk of contracting hantavanirus infections, primarily through their effects on rodent population dynamics and human-rodent contact. We aimed to clarify the environmental risk factors favoring rodent-to-human transmission to provide scientific evidence for developing effective HFRS prevention and control strategies. The 10-year ( 2006–2015 ) field surveillance data from the rodent hosts for hantaveirus, the epidemiological and environmental data extracted from satellite images and meteorological stations were used to quantify the relationships among the occurrence of HFRS, rodent species, and environmental factors by constructing and calculating matrices. The results of these studies showed that cultivated land was predicted to represent the highest risk for HFRS incidence, which accords with the statistics for HFRC cases in 2014–2015. Therefore, future work should focus on preventing HFRS is moist, warm environments.
Costello syndrome ( CS ) is a congenital disease characterized by postnatal growth retardation, short stature, tumor predisposition, developmental delay, and abnormalities of the heart ( cardiomyopathy ), skin and skeletal muscles. The HRAS protein is a GTPase, which mediates signal transduction from growth factor receptors important for cellular proliferation, growth and survival. Somatic mutations in HRAS are present in many cancers and the vast majority of mutations affect codons 12 and 13 ( c. 34-39 ) leading to a constitutively active protein. HRAS p. Gly12Val mutations have the highest transforming activity, are very frequent in cancers, but very rare in CS, where they are reported to cause a severe, early lethal, phenotype. We show that this vulnerability of HRAS exon 2 is caused by a weak 3’ splice site, which makes exons 2 inclusion dependent on binding of splicing stimulatory proteins, like SRSF2, to the critical ESE. Because the majority of cancer- and CS- causing mutations are located here, they affect splicing differently, we show that a splice switching oligonucleotide ( SSO ) that blocks access to the ESE causes exon2 skipping and halts proliferation of cancer cells. This unravels a potential for development of new anti-cancer therapies based on SSO-mediated HRAS Exon 2 skipping.
N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) RNA methylation is the most abundant modification on mRNAs and plays important roles in various biological processes. Methyltransferase-like 3 ( METTL3 ) is a key factor in regulating the development of the central nervous system at the posttranscriptional level in mammals. However, the in vivo functions of Mettl3 in the mouse cerebellum remain unclear. Here, we show that specific inactivation of m6a in mouse nervous system causes cerebellar hypoplasia caused by drastically enhanced apoptosis of newborn cerebellary granule cells ( CGCs ) in the external granular layer ( EGL ). METTL 3 depletion–induced loss of M6A modification causes extended RNA half-lives and aberrant splicing events, consequently leading to dysregulation of transcriptome-wide gene expression and premature CGC death. Our findings reveal a critical role of METTL1-mediated m6 A in regulating cerebellal development and brain function.
Embryonic stem ( ES ) cells are derived from the inner cell mass of the blastocyst. During the course of normal development, implantation of the embryonic stem cells results in further differentiation into distinct cell types of the three primary germ layers that will later form the tissues and organs of the developing embryo. ES cells reflect a very early time point of development. Many genes which are important for early embryogenesis have a conserved function in mouse and human ES cells. However, despite their conserved functions, where these transcription factors bind seems to be highly species-specific. In this study we show that combinatorial binding is strongly associated with co-localization of the transcriptional co-activator Mediator, H3K27ac and increased expression of nearby genes in embryonic stem cell. We observe that the same loci bound by OCT4, SOX2 and NANOG in ES cells frequently drive expression in early embryonic development. Our analysis suggests that the fast evolutionary rewiring of regulatory networks mainly affects individual binding events, whereas “gene regulatory hotspots” which are bound by multiple factors and active in multiple tissues throughout early development are under stronger evolutionary constraints. Our results suggest that the combination of transcription factors that bind to regulatory elements is important for transcription in ES and likely plays an important role by linking the regulatory networks of cellular differentiation during early mammalian development.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) is a genetic disease caused by the fusion of two genes, AML1 and ETO, that are responsible for the development of leukemia. The fusion protein is a DNA-binding transcription factor that is required for hematopoietic differentiation and is a co-repressor molecule expressed in a variety of tissues. AML/ETO binds to DNA sequences that are occupied by the wild-type AML-1 transcription factor, and the fusion protein recruits HEB to its binding sites. We show that the fusion proteins preferentially bind to the promoter regions of 2, 513 non-redundant genes, and that the E-protein HEB is found to co-localize with both AML and HEB on many of its regulated targets. Furthermore, the level of HEB protein was increased in both primary cells and cell lines expressing AML, suggesting a major role for AML 1 and HEO in transcriptional regulation determined by the transcriptional regulatory function. Our study represents the first comprehensive analysis of AML–ETO global genomic occupancy and provides a correlation to its effect on gene expression. Our results point to a pivotal role for the fusion and AML proteins in myeloid leukemogenesis.
Leishmania donovani histone acetyltransferases ( PTMs ) are highly conserved among most eukaryotes, and regulate a myriad of cellular processes such as histone deposition, transcription, DNA replication, and DNA repair, primarily by loosening the interaction between the histone and DNA in the nucleosome, thus decreasing nucleosomal stability. The present study presents the first data pointing to cell cycle-specific activation of promoters in trypanosomatids, thus uncovering new facets of gene regulation in this parasite family.
Inferring on others' ( potentially time-varying ) intentions is a fundamental problem during many social transactions. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we applied computational modeling to behavioral data from an economic game in which 16 pairs of volunteers ( randomly assigned to “player” or “adviser” roles ) interacted. The player performed a probabilistic reinforcement learning task, receiving information about a binary lottery from a visual pie chart. The adviser, who received more predictive information, issued an additional recommendation. Critically, the game was structured such that the adviser's incentives to provide helpful or misleading information varied in time. Using a meta-Bayesian modeling framework, we found that the players' behavior was best explained by the deployment of hierarchical learning: they inferred upon the volatility of the advisers' intentions in order to optimize their predictions about the validity of their advice. Beyond learning, volatility estimates also affected the trial-by-trial variability of decisions: participants were more likely to rely on their estimates of advice accuracy for making choices when they believed that their adviser's intentions were presently stable. The Bayesian framework presented here can quantify individual differences in these mechanisms from simple behavioral readouts and may prove useful in future clinical studies of maladaptive social cognition.
Scrub typhus is a mite-borne infectious disease that is endemic in a triangular geographic region containing the Indian subcontinent, northern Australia and the Far East. In endemic areas, the risk of infection is mainly associated with farming and outdoor activities in rural areas, which have a high disease burden. In non-endemic area, scrub typhus may have a significant impact because of the large population. In Seoul, scrub Typhus was epidemiologically identified in Seoul, the largest metropolitan city in South Korea, using national notifiable disease data from 2010 to 2013. For detailed analysis of clinical features, patients from one hospital that reported the majority of cases were selected and compared to a historic control group. Chigger mites were prospectively collected in the city using a direct chigger mite collection trap, and identified using both phenotypic and 18S rDNA sequencing analyses. Their infection with Orientia tsutsugamushi was confirmed by sequencing the 56-kDa antigen gene. Eighty-eight cases of urban scrub typhuus were determined in Seoul. The possible sites of infection were mountainous areas ( 56. 8% ), city parks ( 20. 5% ) and the vicinity of one’s own residence ( 17. 0% ). Dry fields and the surrounding bush and grassy land have been identified as risk areas for the high frequency of O. tsutsigamushi infection. We identified the presence of indigenous urban scrub feverus in Seoul and a subgroup of them had mild clinical features. The chigger Mite H. miyagawai infected with O. scutellare within the city was found. In the urban area, urban scrub Typhuus needs to be considered as one of the differential febrile diseases and a target for prevention.
RNA interference ( RNAi ) –related pathways affect gene activity by sequence-specific recruitment of Ago proteins to mRNA target molecules. The sequence specificity of this process stems from small RNA ( sRNA ) co-factors bound by the Ago protein. Stability of sRNA molecules in some pathways is in part regulated by Hen1-mediated methylation of their 3′ ends. Here we describe the effects of the Caenorhabditis elegans HEN1 RNA–methyl-transferase homolog, HENN-1, on the different RNAi pathways in this nematode. We show differential effects of HENN–1 on the two pathways that are known to employ methylated sRNAs: the 26G and 21U pathways. Surprisingly, in the germline, stability of 21U RNAs is only mildly affected by loss of methylation; and introduction of artificial 21U target RNA does not further destabilize non-methylated 21U RNA. Global gene expression analysis of henn-1 mutants reveals mild effects, including down-regulation of many germline-expressed genes. These studies further refine our understanding of endogenous RNAi in C. elegans and the roles for Hen1 like enzymes in these pathways.
Glycosylation is a post-translational modification that enriches protein complexity and function. Over half of all known proteins are glycosylated, and alterations in glyco-phenotypes have been observed in numerous physiological and pathological processes. Attached glycans significantly affect protein function; but, contrary to polypeptides, they are not directly encoded by genes, and the complex processes that regulate their assembly are poorly understood. A novel approach combining genome-wide association and high-throughput glycomics analysis of 2, 705 individuals in three population cohorts showed that common variants in the Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 1α ( HNF1α ) and fucosyltransferase genes FUT6 and FUT8 influence N-glycan levels in human plasma. We show that HNF 1α and its downstream target HNF4α are both necessary and sufficient to drive the expression of these genes in hepatic cells. This mechanism has implications for the regulation of immunity, embryonic development, and protein folding, as well as for our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying cancer, coronary heart disease, and metabolic and inflammatory disorders.
Centromeres are the attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton: centromeres bind to kinetochores, which in turn bind to spindles and move chromosomes. Paradoxically, the DNA sequence has little or no role in perpetuating centromeere boundaries. As such they are striking examples of genetic information being transmitted in a manner that is independent of DNA sequence ( epigenetically ). In species such as maize, the available data suggest that centromeric DNA does not function to recruit kinetome proteins until it is combined with specific epigenetic marks. Here we carried out a genetic and biochemical study of maize CENPC, a key inner kinetore protein. We show that DNA binding is conferred by a localized region 122 amino acids long, and that the DNA-binding reaction is exquisitely sensitive to single-stranded RNA. Long, single-standed nucleic acids strongly promote the binding of CEN PC to DNA, and the types of RNAs that stabilize DNA binding match in size and character the RNAs present on centromere DNA in vivo. Removal or replacement of the binding module with HIV integrase binding domain causes a partial delocalization of the protein in vitro. The data suggest a novel mechanism for the involvement of centromeric RNA in centrometochore specification.
The placenta is a key organ for fetal growth and development; it performs a variety of functions including controlling fetal access to nutrients, hormone production, and mitigation of adverse effects from the environment. In the present study, we report the first genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) of birth weight ( BW, CO and CBMI ). We found extensive enrichment of placental transcriptome and eQTLs for GWAS hits, and importantly, discovered hundreds of transcripts controlled by the genetic variants that influence these anthropometric traits. Our results highlight the importance of the in utero environment on shaping the developmental trajectory of the fetus and, thereby, subsequent health outcomes across the lifespan.
Post Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) is a chronic but not life-threatening disease; patients generally do not demand treatment, deserve much more attention because PKDL is highly relevant in the context of Visceral Leishmania ( VL ) elimination. There is no standard guideline for diagnosis and treatment for PKDL. A species-specific PCR on slit skin smear demonstrated a sensitivity of 93. 8%, but it has not been applied for routine diagnostic purpose. The study was conducted to determine the actual disease burden in an endemic area of Malda district, West Bengal, comparison of the three diagnostic tools for diagnosis of PKDL case detection and pattern of lesion regression after treatment. In majority of the cases skin lesions persisted after treatment completion which gradually disappeared during 6–12 months post treatment period. Reappearance of lesions noted in two cases after 1. 5 years of miltefosine treatment. Such surveys are required in other endemic areas to attain the ultimate goal of eliminating Kala–azar. PCR-based molecular diagnostic method is helpful in confirming diagnosis of VL/PKDL, referral laboratory at district or state level can achieve it.
Bacteria have evolved various inducible genetic programs to face many types of stress that challenge their growth and survival. Competence is one such program. It enables genetic transformation, a major horizontal gene transfer process. This collective behavior is known to depend on an exported signaling Competence Stimulating Peptide ( CSP ), whose action generates a positive feedback loop. However, it is unclear how this CSP-dependent population switch is coordinated. By monitoring spontaneous competence development in real time during growth of four distinct pneumococcal lineages, we have found that competence shift in the population relies on a self-activated cell fraction that arises via a growth time-dependent mechanism. We demonstrate that CSP remains bound to cells during this event, and conclude that the rate of competence development corresponds to the propagation of competence by contact between activated and quiescent cells. We validated this two-step cell-contact sensing mechanism by measuring competence development during co-cultivation of strains with altered capacity to produce or respond to CSP. Finally, we found that the membrane protein ComD retains the CSP, limiting its free diffusion in the medium. We propose that competence initiator cells originate stochastically in response to stress, to form a distinct subpopulation that then transmits the competence signal by cell-cell contact.
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are small, double-stranded DNA viruses that infect the basal keratinocytes of differentiating epidermal or mucosal epithelium. Most HPV infections are asymptomatic or cause benign lesions. However, several HPV types, termed high-risk HPVs, are associated with essentially all cases of cervical cancer, as well as a significant number of anogenital and oropharyngeal cancers. Combined, HPV16 is responsible for approximately 5% of all human cancers. The HPV16 capsid is a non-enveloped particle that consists of 72 pentamers of the major capsid protein L2, in complex with a circularized, 8 kb chromatinized genome. L2/vDNA transport to the cell is dependent on entry into mitosis, coinciding with mitotic entry in synchronized cells. The details of this translocation remain poorly characterized. In this report, we have developed a novel assay to monitor L2 translocation that depends on fusion of L2 to the bacterial biotin ligase BirA. We find that translocation is blocked in three different mutants of the newly defined chromatin binding region, suggesting a functional link between the ability to bind chromatin and L2-vDNA translocation.
Influenza A ( IAV ) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the developing world. In this study, we present a method to measure the relative transmissibility ( “transmission fitness” ) of one strain of a pathogen compared to another. The method is applied to data from “competitive mixtures” experiments in which animals are co-infected with a mixture of two strains of influenza. We observe the mixture in each animal over time and over multiple generations of transmission. We use data from influenza experiments in ferrets to demonstrate the approach. We show that the method accurately recovers the relative transmission fitness of one strains compared to the other, and that the number of virions transmitted is fixed across each exposure event. We also show that any adverse outcome due to selection and subsequent spread of an NAI-resistant strain is exquisitely dependent upon the transmission fitness. The mathematical framework presented here has wide applicability in influenza research, and is applicable to other viral and bacterial pathogens.
Light is one of the most important environmental cues regulating multiple aspects of plant growth and development, and abscisic acid ( ABA ) is a plant hormone that plays important roles during many phases of the plant life cycle and in plants' responses to various environmental stresses. How plants integrate the external light signal with endogenous ABA pathway for better adaptation and survival remains poorly understood. Here, we show that BBX21 ( also known as SALT TOLERANCE HOMOLOG 2 ), a B-box ( BBX ) protein previously shown to positively regulate seedling photomorphogenesis, is also involved in ABA signaling. Our genetic data show that HY5, a well-studied transcription factor, directly binds to the ABI5 promoter and is required for the expression of ABI genes and HY5. In addition, HY5 was shown to directly activate its own expression, whereas BBX 21 negatively regulates this activity. Together, our study indicates a complicated but delicate control of crosstalk between light and ABA signals in Arabidopsis thaliana.
The multisubunit Mediator complex is an essential co-regulator of RNA polymerase II that is conserved throughout eukaryotes. Here we present the first study of Mediator functions in the pathogenic fungus Candida albicans. We show that the Mediator has some conserved functions with S. cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, but also has additional roles in the expression of virulence-related genes, most notably the ALS adhesins. We also show that Mediator subunits are repressors of the FLO genes and are activators of the ALS genes. Our data suggest that the roles of Medator subunits in adhesion are different between these two distantly related fungal species, suggesting distinct Mediator-dependent control of adhesion.
Bacteria in biofilms have higher antibiotic tolerance than their planktonic counterparts. A major outstanding question is the degree to which the biofilm-specific cellular state and its constituent genetic determinants contribute to this hyper-tolerant phenotype. Here, we used genome-wide functional profiling of a complex, heterogeneous mutant population of Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1 to systematically quantify the contribution of each locus to antibiotic tolerance under these two states. We identified large sets of mutations that contribute to antibiotic resistance predominantly in biofilm or planktonics. Our mixed population-based experimental design recapitulated the complexity of natural biofilm and, unlike previous studies, revealed clinically observed behaviors including the emergence of quorum sensing-deficient mutants. Our study revealed a substantial contribution of the cellular state to the antibiotic tolerance of bacteria in the presence of tobramycin, providing a rational foundation for the development of novel therapeutics against P. aerugina biofilm infections.
Many biological systems are difficult to analyse due to a multitude of interacting components and the concomitant lack of information about the essential dynamics. Therefore, there is an increasing need for computational algorithms that efficiently search large model spaces to provide the best systematic description of such biological systems and that help to identify their relevant factors and processes. Model selection algorithms are often used in biology to compare a preselected number of models or rely on exhaustive searches of the total model space which might be unfeasible dependent on the number of possibilities. We developed an algorithm that is able to perform model selection on complex systems and searches large model space in a dynamical way. Our algorithm includes local and newly developed non-local search methods that can prevent the algorithm from ending up in local minima of the model space by accounting for structurally similar processes. We tested and validated the algorithm based on simulated data and showed its flexibility for handling different model structures. We also used the algorithm to analyse experimental data on the cell proliferation dynamics of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells that were cultured under different conditions. Our analyses indicated dynamical changes within the proliferation potential of cells that was reduced within tissue-like 3D ex vivo cultures compared to suspension. Due to the flexibility in handling various model structures, the algorithm is applicable to a large variety of different biological problems and represents a useful tool for the data-oriented evaluation of complex model spaces.
Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, a parasite that infects humans and causes Chagas Disease worldwide. The treatment regimen of benznidazole ( BNZ ) was started in seropositive school-age children living in certified vector control areas. We conducted a 12-month follow-up study and seven blood samples were taken during and after the treatment. Serology, conventional diagnostic PCR and quantitative Real-time PCR ( qPCR ) were performed. Plasma Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines levels were also determined. The levels of IL-17A showed significantly higher levels in the patients before the treatment compared to age-matched seronegative children and significantly decreased to the normal level one-year after treatment. Moreover, IL- 17A levels were positively co-related to parasite counts detected by qPCRs. IL-18A might be useful for the evaluation treatment efficacy by ELISA, and it could facilitate the present treatment program and the development of novel drugs.
Neisseria meningitidis is the causative agent of bacterial meningitis. The genome is rich in repetitive DNA and almost 2% of the genome is occupied by a diminutive transposon called the Correia element. We have developed a bioinformatic analysis defining eight subtypes of the element with four distinct types of ends. Transcriptional analysis, using PCR and a lacZ reporter system, revealed that two ends in particular encode strong promoters. The activity of the strongest promoter is dictated by a recurrent polymorphism ( Y128 ) at the right end of the elements. We highlight examples of elements that appear to drive transcription of adjacent genes and others that may express small non-coding RNAs. Pair-wise comparisons between three meningococcal genomes revealed that no more than two-thirds of Correias elements maintain their subtype at any particular locus. This is due to recombinational class switching between elements in a single strain. Upon switching subtype, a new allele is available to spread through the population by natural transformation. This process may represent a hitherto unrecognized mechanism for phase variation in the meningiolcus.
Aspergillus heterostrophus is a filamentous dothideomycete pathogen of maize. It produces a wealth of secondary metabolites, including the host selective toxin, T-toxin, which promotes high virulence to maize carrying Texas male sterile cytoplasm ( T-cms ). T-Toxin production is significantly increased in the dark in wild type ( WT ), whereas Chvel1 and Chlae1 mutant toxin levels are much reduced in the light compared to WT. Correspondingly, expression of Tox1 biosynthetic genes is up-regulated in WT, while dark-induced expression is much reduced/minimal in Chvel 1 and Chle1 mutants. Deletion of ChLae1 or ChVel1, key to survival in the field but not under laboratory conditions, reduces tolerance to H2O2. Thus, the two orthologous proteins, VeA and LaeA, positively regulate T-viral production, pathogenicity and super virulence, oxidative stress responses, sexual development, and aerial hyphal growth, and negatively control melanin biosynthesis and differentiation.
Bacterial Nav channels provide the molecular pathways for most ion current flow across cell membranes during electrical activity in biological systems. Molecular dynamics simulations of ion permeation through bacterial Nav channels have been recently published and molecular dynamics simulations have been consistent with many electrophysiological properties of eukaryotic channels. However, the mechanism of this asymmetry has not been clearly understood. To address this question, we combined non-equilibrium simulation data with two-dimensional equilibrium unperturbed landscapes generated by umbrella sampling and Weighted Histogram Analysis Methods to characterize the energetics of the biased movements over the equilibrium PMFs. The results provide new insight into the mechanism that is required to break the K+ block in bacterial Nav channel. The non-quilibrium simulations indicate that two or three extracellular K+ ions can block the entrance to the selectivity filter of NavAb channel in the presence of applied forces in the inward direction, but not in the outward direction. The useful work predicted by the non–equilibrium simulations that is needed to break this block is equivalent to large applied potentials experimentally measured for two bacterial Nav ion channels to induce inward currents of K+ ion. These results illustrate how inclusion of non-essential factors in the simulations can provide detailed information about mechanisms of ion selectivity that is missing from mechanisms derived from either crystal structures or equilibrium free-energy landscapes.
Rabies is a fatal infectious disease of the central nervous system ( CNS ) caused by a neurotropic RNA virus in the family Rhabdoviridae. The severity of the disease is not easily explained by postmortem histopathological studies. In this study, the amount of rabies viral antigen within neuronal cell bodies was quantitatively assessed by image analysis in a cohort of naturally rabies infected non-vaccinated dogs ( 5 furious and 5 paralytic ) that were sacrificed shortly after developing illness. Results were taken at different levels of the spinal cord, brain stem, and cerebrum. Results show that rabies virus particles are more abundant in neuronal cell body than in the paralytic form. This suggests that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the furious form, resulting in slower viral propagation. The latter could be cytokine-mediated, since previous studies have documented greater inflammation in this subtype.
Insulator elements are DNA sequences that regulate interactions between promoters and enhancers. By preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter communication, insulators are believed to play a key role in the genomic organisation of transcriptional regulation. In vertebrates, almost all characterised insulator element are associated with the binding of CTCF, a DNA-binding protein that contains multiple zinc fingers. CTCFs are well studied in vertebrates as an enhancer blocking factor, but their function has only been characterised recently. To date only one endogenous binding location for CTC F has been identified in the Drosophila genome, the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the Bithorax complex ( BX-C ). Here we use chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray to identify CTC-binding sites within representative regions of the D-rosophil genome, including the 3-Mb Adh region, the BX, and the Antennapedia complex. We find that CTCf is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the A. B., suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCCF-dependent mechanism. Comparison of the locations of the C TCF binding sites with characterised Polycomb target sites and histone modification provides support for the domain model of BX C regulation.
In biochemistry, the conformational change of a protein is often coupled to conformational changes that alter the local environment of the active site to align the reactive groups for efficient catalysis and to reach the transition state. Adaptive substrate recognition is a well-known concept; however, it has been poorly characterized at a structural level because of its dynamic nature. Here, we provide a detailed mechanism for an induced-fit process at atomic resolution. We take advantage of a slow, tight binding inhibitor-enzyme system, actinonin-peptide deformylase. Crystal structures of the initial open state and final closed state were solved, as well as those of several intermediate mimics captured during the process. Ligand-induced reshaping of a hydrophobic pocket drives closure of the enzyme, which is finally “zipped up” by additional binding interactions. Together with biochemical analyses, these data allow a coherent reconstruction of the sequence of events leading from the encounter complex to the key-lock binding state. A “movie” that reconstructs this entire process can be further extrapolated to catalysis.
The thalamus is the primary sensory gateway that relays sensory information to the cerebral cortex. While a single recipient cortical cell receives the convergence of many principal relay cells of the thalamic cortex, each thalamocortical cell in turn integrates a dense and distributed synaptic feedback from the cortex. During sensory processing, the influence of this functional loop remains largely ignored. Using dynamic-clamp techniques in thalam slices in vitro, we combined theoretical and experimental approaches to implement a realistic hybrid retino-thalamo-cortical pathway mixing biological cells and simulated circuits. The synaptic bombardment of cortical origin was mimicked through the injection of a stochastic mixture of excitatory and inhibitory conductances, resulting in a gradable correlation level of afferent activity shared by the thalamamic cells. The study of the impact of the simulated cortical input on the global retinocortic signal transfer efficiency revealed a novel control mechanism resulting from the collective resonance of all thalamacortical relay neurons. We show here that the transfer efficiency of sensory input transmission depends on three key features: i ) the number of thalamocyortical cells involved in the many-to-one convergence from thalaman to cortex, ii ) the statistics of the corticothalamic synaptic bombardment and iii ) the level of correlation imposed between converging thalamate relay cells. Our results demonstrate counterintuitively that the spiking efficiency increases when the level is correlated across thalamer cells. This suggests that the sensory transfer efficiency can be selectively amplified when they become simultaneously desynchronized by the cortical feedback.
Methylation of nucleic acids increases the repertoire of information carried in a DNA or RNA sequence. DNA methylation has been proposed to regulate self-versus-nonself recognition, distinguishing DNA damaged strands in need of repair, genomic imprinting, X-chromosome inactivation, transposon suppression, and transcription. However, the biological importance of these modifications has expanded in recent years with the development of new and more sensitive detection technologies. Here, we report genetic evidence for a critical role for the putative DNA demethylase NMAD-1 in regulating DNA replication and DNA damage repair during meiosis in C. elegans. We found that NMAD is required to physically interact with the DNA repair and DNA replication machinery on the chromatin to facilitate appropriate meiosis progression. Furthermore, we found that the majority of TOP-2 binding to chromatin depends on NMAD. These results suggest NMAD’s demethylation activity at DNA is central to its role in meiosis, which is coupled with delayed DNA replication, impaired DNA repair, and increased apoptosis of maturing oocytes.
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous pathogen that can cause disability in newborns and serious clinical diseases in immunocompromised patients. The virus has a large genome with enormous coding potential; its viral particles are equipped with complicated glycoprotein complexes and can infect a wide range of human cells. Although multiple host cellular receptors interacting with viral glycoproteins have been reported, the mechanism of HCM virus infection remains a mystery. Here we report identification of adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein ( APMAP ) as a novel modulator active in the early stage of H CMV infection. APMAP is necessary for HCMv infection in both epithelial cells and fibroblasts; knockdown of APMAP expression significantly reduced HCMVs infection of these cells but not in wildtype cells. Interestingly, ectopic expression of human APMAP in cells refractory to infection, such as canine MDCK and murine NIH/3T3 cells, promoted HCMC infection. Furthermore, reduction in viral immediate early ( IE ) gene transcription at 6 h post infection and delayed nucleus translocation of tegument delivered pp65 at 4 h post HCMVC infection were detected in APMAP-deficient cells, all in a pentamer non-specific manner. Our results suggest that APMAP plays a role in the HCM V infection mechanism.
Cell differentiation is an important process in which cells are able to self-renew and differentiate, thus sustaining the stem cell pool and giving rise to mature, specialized cells. However, the exact molecular events that direct lineage commitment are poorly understood. Here, we present a minimal model that combines cell-extrinsic and cell-intrinsically elements of regulation in order to understand how both instructive and stochastic events can inform cell commitment decisions in hematopoiesis. Our results suggest that cytokine-mediated positive receptor feedback can induce a “switch-like” response to external stimuli during multilineage differentiation by providing robustness to both bipotent and committed states while protecting progenitors from noise-induced differentiation or decommitment. Our model provides support to both the instructive theories of lineage commitment and provides a computational framework that can integrate both classical and alternative commitment paths. Our simulations further suggest that the kinetics of differentiation to a mature cell state can depend on the starting progenitor state and on the route of commitment that is chosen.
Bunyaviruses are a group of viruses that infect vertebrates, invertebrates, and plants. The genus Bunyavirus constitutes an expanding group of emerging viruses, which threaten human and animal health. Despite the medical importance, little is known about orthobunyAVirus structure, a prerequisite for understanding virus assembly and entry. Here, using electron cryo-tomography, we report the ultrastructure of Bunyamwera virus, the prototypic member of this genus. We show that BunyAMwera virions are pleomorphic in shape and display a locally ordered lattice of glycoprotein spikes. Each spike protrudes 18 nm from the viral membrane and becomes disordered upon introduction to an acidic environment. Using sub-tomogram averaging, we derived a three-dimensional model of the glycoproteins, which we describe as a tripod-like arrangement. Our study provides evidence of a pH-dependent conformational change that occurs during the entry of orthobobunyaavirus into host cells and provides a blueprint for the structure of this group of pathogens.
Primary angle closure glaucoma ( PACG ) remains a major cause of irreversible blindness, particularly in Asian countries such as China, Mongolia, Singapore, and India. The clinical heterogeneity of PACG suggests that disease-related endophenotypes/quantitative traits may help elucidate true disease genes. Quantitative phenotypes allow individuals to be viewed along the continuum of risk, and may provide additional information which could complement dichotomous measures of affection status. We recently conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) on PACG with 3, 771 PACG cases and 18, 801 controls, and identified 3 strongly associated genetic variants: rs11024102 in PLEKHA7, rs3753841 in COL11A1 and rs1015213 located between PCMTD1 and ST18 on Chromosome 8q. Interestingly, none of the previously identified PACG-associated genetic variants were significantly associated with ACD. Our findings suggest that the increase in PACG risk could in part be mediated by genetic sequence variants influencing anterior chamber dimensions.
The bilaterian tree unites two major clades, deuterostomes and protostomes. These two clades share a common developmental toolkit consisting of conserved transcription factors and signaling pathways. However, the precise expression of each circuit component depends on cis-regulatory elements, often identified as conserved non-coding elements ( CNEs ). Here we describe the first examples of cis-regulation elements conserved between deuterosomes and prokaryotes. These elements have conserved sequence and gene synteny. Sequence conservation of Bicores reflects conserved patterns of transcription factor binding sites. We predict that Bicore1 acts as response elements to signaling pathways, and we show that BICores are developmental enhancers that drive expression of transcriptional repressors in the vertebrate central nervous system. Although the small number of identified Bicor proteins suggests extensive rewiring of cis regulation between the protostome and deuterosteromes, additional Bicors may be revealed as our understanding of transgenic regulatory elements and sample of bilaterians continue to grow.
Influenza virus diversity and antigenic drift have been well characterized on a global scale, but the factors that influence the virus’ rapid evolution within and between human hosts are less clear. Given the modest effectiveness of seasonal vaccination, vaccine-induced antibody responses could serve as a potent selective pressure for novel influenza variants at the individual or community level. We used next generation sequencing of patient-derived viruses from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of vaccine efficacy to characterize the diversity of influenza A virus and to define the impact of vaccine immunity on within-host populations. Importantly, this study design allowed us to isolate the impact on influenza virus diversity while still studying natural infection. We specifically asked: ( i ) whether influenza viruses in vaccinated individuals represent escape variants, ( ii ) whether novel antigenic variants are found in hosts with non-sterilizing immunity, and ( iii ) the degree to which vaccination-induced immunity impacts the overall diversity of intrahost populations at local scales. Our data suggest that vaccine-mediated immunity may be only a minor contributor to influenza virus evolution.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani causes severe disease. Age appears to be critical in determining the clinical outcome of VL and at present there is no effective vaccine available against VL for any age group. Previously, we showed that genetically modified live attenuated L. Donovani parasites ( LdCen-/- ) induced a strong protective innate and adaptive immune response in aged mice. In this study, we analyzed the immunogenicity profile of LdDCen/- parasites in aged and aged mice and compared it with that in young and aged animals. We found that the innate immune response was enhanced in both age groups compared to LdWT infected mice. Furthermore, LdCDs derived from young and old mice were able to induce a heightened proinflammatory cytokine response and stimulated splenocytes for heightened leishmania activity associated with nitric oxide production in both aged and young mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that LdDCs preserve a protective immune response with aging and may also contribute to pathogen clearance.
Enteroviruses ( EVs ) are the leading causes of human disease worldwide and are associated with a broad spectrum of clinically distinct syndromes. While most EV infections are benign or asymptomatic, a small proportion may lead to life-threatening disease. Apart from the successful vaccines against poliovirus, there are currently no efficient antiviral treatments or prophylaxes against these common and potentially fatal pathogens. This work clarifies the diverse biophysical and immunogenic roles of capsid proteins in EV pathogenesis and may guide the search of therapeutic targets.
Herpes Simplex Virus 1 ( HSV-1 ) is a herpes virus that infects the sensory neurons of the brain. HSV–infected cells are infected by HSV, and the virus is able to evade the host immune system by binding to human immunoglobulin G ( hIgG ), a receptor for the human immune system. In this study, we investigated the fate of a cell surface glycoprotein, gE-gI, and an antigen that are bound to the HIG. We found that gE–gI and the viral antigen, HSVG, were both internalized and targeted to compartments with lysosomal characteristics. We also found that the internalized surface glycolytic glycoproteins gE and gD were localized in lysoomes and lysophosomes. These results suggest that the HSV glycoprolein gE can mediate clearance of infected cell surfaces of anti-viral host IgG and viral antigens to evade IgG-mediated immune responses, representing a general mechanism for viral Fc receptors in immune evasion and viral pathogenesis.
Cystic hydatid disease ( CHD ) is caused by the larval stages of Echinococcus granulosus, a cestode that poses a threat to public health as well as significant economic losses. The disease is difficult to control because appropriate diagnostic procedures are lacking and the available drugs are inefficient. In this study, we used Roche 454 sequencing technology and in silico secretome analysis to explore the transcriptome profiles of the PSCs released by the parasite. We identified a large number of nonredundant sequences as unigenes, of which 22, 910 ( 86. 4% ) were mapped to the newly published genome and 17, 705 were distributed within the coding sequence ( CDS ) regions. Of the 2, 280 ESPs predicted from the transcriptomes, 138 ESPs were inferred to be involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates, while 124 ESPs ( 124 ESP ) were found to be important in the metabolic adaptation to their hosts and/or themselves. A further 44 proteins were identified as intracellular enzymes that regulate glycolysis/gluconeogenesis ( GL/GN ) pathways, while a further 44 antigenic proteins, 25 molecular chaperones and four proteases were highly represented. Many proteins were also found to have significantly enriched in development-related signaling pathways, such as the TGF-β receptor pathways and insulin pathways. Overall, this study provides valuable information on the metabolism adaptation of parasites to their host that can be used to aid the development of novel intervention targets to control the prevalence of the disease. Further work is required to identify additional ESPs and establish their functions.
Aspergillus nidulans is an important soil nitrogen source for fungi in natural environments. Nitrate is a major soluble nitrogen form in soils and, besides serving as nutrient, also influences plant development, virulence of phytopathogenic fungi and the production of fungal secondary metabolites. Nitrates are a major nitrogen source in soil and are tightly regulated in microorganisms and plants. In this work, we show that in the absence of nitrate, the transcription factor NirA accumulates in the nucleus within less than a minute after the addition of nitrite and is subsequently able to bind to the upstream activating sequences of genes involved in nitrate assimilation. This leads to rapid nuclear accumulation and transcriptional activity of NirA. We propose that the N-terminal activation domain is exposed, but the nuclear export domain is masked by a central portion of the protein ( termed nitrate responsive domain, NiRD ), thus restricting the active NirA molecules to the cytosol. In contrast, replacement of Met169 by alanine transformed the protein into a permanently nuclear and active transcription factor.
The primary function of voltage-gated sodium channels is to allow the propagation of action potentials. In mammals, there are nine different sodium channels, many of which are more than ≈90% identical by sequence. On one hand, the sequence similarity of the channels presumably corresponds to similarity of their functional properties; this is consistent with the idea that these properties must be tightly constrained. However, the multiplicity of genes encoding sodium channels raises the question: why are there so many? We demonstrate that the simplest theoretical constraints bounding sodium channel diversity—the requirements of membrane excitability and the uniqueness of the resting potential—act directly on constraining sodium channel properties. We compare the predicted constraints with functional data on mammalian sodium channels collected from the literature, including 172 different sets of measurements from 40 publications, wild-type and mutant, under a variety of conditions. The data from all channel types, including mutants, obeys the excitability constraint; on the other hand, channels expressed in muscle tend to obey the constraint of a unique resting potential. The excitability properties alone distinguish the nine sodium channels into four different groups that are consistent with phylogenetic analysis. Our calculations suggest interpretations for the functional differences between these groups.
Influenza virus is a highly pathogenic virus which can be targeted by antiviral drugs at numerous points in its infectious life cycle. The viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase is an attractive target for antiviral drug development since potent polymerase inhibitors could directly stop viral replication at an early stage. Recent structural studies on functional domains of the heterotrimeric polymerase, which comprises subunits PA, PB1 and PB2, open the way to a structure based approach to optimise inhibitors of viral replication. In particular, the unique cap-snatching mechanism of viral transcription can be inhibited by targeting either the PB2 cap-binding or PA endonuclease domains. Here we describe high resolution X-ray co-crystal structures of the 2009 pandemic H1N1 ( pH1N ) PA endONuclease domain with a series of specific inhibitors, including four diketo compounds and a green tea catechin, all of which chelate the two critical manganese ions in the active site of the enzyme. Comparison of the binding mode of the different compounds and that of a mononucleotide phosphate highlights, firstly, how different substituent groups on the basic metal binding scaffold can be orientated to bind in distinct sub-pockets within the active sites, and secondly, the plasticity of certain structural elements of the site cavity, which result in induced fit binding. These results will be important in optimising the design of more potent inhibitors targeting the cap-nuclease activity of influenza virus polymerase.
Snake envenomation is an important yet neglected health problem in many poor tropical countries. Antivenoms are the only rational and effective therapy for these cases. Efforts are being made to produce effective, affordable and sufficient antivenoms for these victims. The immunization process, which has rarely been described in detail, is one step that needs to be rigorously studied and improved especially with regard to the production of polyspecific antisera. The polyspecific nature of therapeutic antivenom could obviate the need to identify the culprit snake species. The aim of this study was to produce potent polyspecific antiisera against 3 medically important vipers of Thailand and its neighboring countries, namely Cryptelytrops albolabris "White lipped pit viper" ( CA ) Calleoselasma rhodostoma “Malayan pit vipers” ( CR ) and Daboia siamensis “Russell’s viper”. Four horses were immunized with a mixture of the 3 viper venoms using the ‘low dose, low volume multi-site’ immunization protocol. The antiseras showed rapid rise in ELISA titers against the 3 venoms and reached plateau at about the 8th week post-immunization. The in vivo neutralization potency ( P ) of the antizera against CA, CR and DS venoms was 10. 40, 2. 42 and 0. 76 mg/ml, respectively and was much higher than the minimal potency limits set by Queen Soavabha Memorial Institute ( QSMI ). The monospecific antiserom F ( ab’ ) 2 was shown to effectively neutralize the procoagulant, hemorrhagic, necrotic and nephrotoxic activities of all or selected homologous vipers. This effective immunization procedure should be useful in the production and production of potent poly specific antiserum against snake venoms, and equine antiseral against tetanus, diphtheria or rabies.
Salmonella enterica is a pathogenic bacterial species that is an important cause of disease in humans ranging from gastroenteritis to systemic infections. Host-adapted strains of Salmonella cause systemic infections and have the ability to persist systemically for long periods of time despite the presence of a robust immune response. Chronically infected hosts are asymptomatic and transmit disease to naïve hosts via fecal shedding of bacteria, thereby serving as a critical reservoir for disease. We have shown that the bacterial effector protein SseI ( also called SrfH ) is required for long-term systemic infection in mice. SSEI inhibits normal cell migration of primary macrophages and dendritic cells ( DC ) in vitro, and such inhibition requires the host factor IQGAP1, an important regulator of cell migration. In addition, infection with wild-type ( WT ) S. typhimurium suppressed DC migration to the spleen in vivo in an Sse I-dependent manner. Correspondingly, examination of spleens from mice infected with ΔsseI S., which is a bacterial toxin that contains a cysteine residue, revealed fewer DC and CD4+ T lymphocytes compared to mice infected. Taken together, our results demonstrate that Ssei inhibits normal host cell migration, which ultimately counteracts the ability of the host to clear systemic bacteria.
Community acquired-methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( CA-MRSA ) is a socially problematic pathogen that infects healthy individuals, causing severe disease. The underlying mechanism for the high virulence of CA- MRSA is not known. The transcription product of the psm-mec gene, located in the mobile genetic element SCCmec of HA-MRAS, but not CA-MRSAs, suppresses the expression of phenol-soluble modulin α ( PSMα ), a cytolytic toxin. Here we report that psm–mec RNA inhibits translation of the agrA gene encoding a positive transcription factor for the PSMΩ gene via specific binding to agrAA mRNA. Furthermore, we performed an epidemiologic study and a deletion analysis of psm, which confirmed that pSM-mEC RNA suppresses MRSA virulence by inhibiting the translation of agrα. Thus, psm is a mobile genetic component that confers methicillin resistance to MRSA strains.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most serious arthropod borne viral disease worldwide with an estimated 390 million people infected mainly in the tropical and subtropical regions, and 3 billion people at risk of infection in over 100 countries. The etiological agent of dengue, dengues virus ( Dengue ), belongs to the Flaviviridae family, which also includes Japanese encephalitis, West Nile, and yellow fever viruses. DENV is primarily transmitted to humans by the highly urbanized Aedes aegypti female mosquito which has spread globally due to increased trade and travel. In this study, we report here that DENV2 infection of mice born to DENV1-immune mothers resulted in enhanced disease severity characterized by increased virus titers and extensive vascular leakage which eventually led to the animals’ death. However, we sought to reproduce this mouse model in a less immunocompromised background. We report here a novel mouse model of disease enhancement that is mediated by maternal antibodies in type I IFN receptor-deficient A129 mice. This model may help dissecting the mechanisms involved in denguue pathogenesis and evaluate the efficacy of vaccine and therapeutic candidates.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum. The disease is transmitted to humans by the bite of female sandflies of the genus Lutzomyia. It can also occur through Lu. cruzi and Lu. evansi. The burden of the disease is not exactly known in the Americas, since there is a lack of effective surveillance systems. Although the Brazilian surveillance system is considered better than in other Latin American countries, VL is also underreported in this country. The present study is the first systematic review with meta-analysis about factors associated with VL in humans. Male sex was associated with visceral leishmania infection in studies which used the leishmannin skin test for diagnosis and in those where the outcome was the clinical disease; the opposite occurred when serological diagnosis was applied. Results showed the existence of consistent patterns for some of the factors analyzed and should be taken into account in developing more effective and well-targeted control measures. Studies must be conducted in new areas of the continent, with improved methodological quality and prioritizing the investigation of the patterns identified and their causes, as well as variables for which knowledge is poor.
Inhalation of Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) causes acute and fatal pneumonia. The lung cytokine milieu favors exponential Ft replication, but the mechanisms underlying acute pathogenesis and death remain unknown. Evaluation of the sequential and systemic host immune response in pulmonary tularemia reveals that in contrast to overwhelming bacterial burden or cytokine production, an overt innate cellular response to Ft drives tissue pathology and host mortality. Lethal infection with Ft elicits medullary and extra-medullary myelopoiesis supporting recruitment of large numbers of immature myeloid cells and MDSC to the lungs. These cells fail to mature and die, leading to subsequent necrotic lung damage, loss of pulmonary function, and host death that is partially dependent upon immature Ly6G+ cells. In contrast, during sub-lethal infection with SchuS4 the pulmonary cellular response is characterized by a predominance of mature neutrophils and inflammatory monocytes required for protection, suggesting a required threshold for lethal bacterial infection. Further, eliciting a mature phagocyte response provides transient, but dramatic, innate protection against SchUS4 infection. This study reveals that the nature of the myelinoid cell response may be the primary determinant of host mortality versus survival following Francisella infection.
Aedes albopictus, the Asian tiger mosquito, is a vector of medically important arboviruses, including chikungunya ( CHIKV ), dengue ( DENV ) and Zika. The rapid global spread of this mosquito has great potential for mitigating its spread and, consequently, disease risks. Classical population genetics analyses and Approximate Bayesian Computation ( ABC ) approaches were combined to disentangle the demographic history of populations from representative countries in the Southeast Asian native range and in the recent and more recently colonized areas. In Southeast Asia, the low differentiation and the high co-ancestry values identified among China, Thailand and Japan indicate that, in the native range, these populations maintain high genetic connectivity, revealing their ancestral common origin. China appears to be the oldest population. Outside Southeast Asia, the invasion process in La Réunion, America and the Mediterranean Basin is primarily supported by a chaotic propagule distribution, which cooperates in maintaining a relatively high genetic diversity within the adventive populations. Thus, the outcomes from this paper are valuable to develop models that may predict the risk of vector outbreaks in old and newly invaded areas.
While much is known about acute infection pathogenesis, the understanding of chronic infections has lagged. Here we sought to identify the genes and functions that mediate fitness of the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa in chronic wound infections, and to better understand the selective environment in wounds. We found that clinical isolates from chronic human wounds were frequently defective in virulence functions and biofilm formation. In contrast, genes involved in anaerobic growth, some metabolic and energy pathways, and membrane integrity were critical in infection. Consistent with these findings, the fitness characteristics of some wound impaired-mutants could be represented by high-density bacterial growth conditions ex vivo, and more comprehensively by high density bacteria growth conditions, in the absence of a host. These data shed light on the bacterial functions needed in chronic wounds, the nature of stresses applied to bacteria at chronic infection sites, and suggest therapeutic targets that might compromise wound infection pathophysiology.
Bancroftian filariasis is a mosquito-borne parasitic disease that affects approximately 100 million persons worldwide. It is impressively debilitating and economically punishing for huge numbers of adult males throughout endemic countries. There is consensus that hydrocele is the most frequent clinical manifestation of bancroftsian filariasis. On the other hand, few systematic studies of the prevalence or incidence of hydrocele in temperate climates have been published. In the tropics, hydrocele prevalence is a very frequent condition. In locations where bancrotftia is highly endemic, up to 40% of adult male are reported to have testicular hydrocele. In a prospective study, we evaluated the occurrence of intrascrotal lymphangiectasia, gross appearance/consistency of the testis, and hydrocele recurrence using the complete excision of tunica vaginalis at the Center for Teaching, Research and Tertiary Referral ( NEPAF ). In Group-1 a total of 1, 128 hydrocelectomies were performed ( mean patient age of 30. 3yr and mean follow-up of 8. 6yr ). Per surgically leaking or leak-prone dilated lymphatic vessels were seen in the inner or outer surface of the hydrocele sac wall or in surrounding tissue, particularly in the retrotesticular area, in 30. 9% and in 46. 3% of patients. The testicles were abnormal in shape, volume, and consistency in 203/1, 128 ( 18% ) and 10/28 ( 35. 7% ), respectively ( p = 0, 025 ). Lymph fluid from ruptured dilated filarial vessels is an important component of chronic filarial hydrocele fluid that threatens the integrity of testis in an adult population living in bancrosftian endemic areas.
Trichinella spiralis is a zoonotic parasitic nematode that causes trichinellosis, a disease that has been identified on all continents except Antarctica. During chronic infection, T. spiralis larvae infect skeletal myofibres, severely disrupting their differentiation state. An activity-based probe, HA-Ub-VME, was used to identify deubiquitinating enzyme ( DUB ) activity in lysate of L1 larvae collected from nurse cell complexes. Results were analysed by immuno-blot and Immuno-precipitation, identifying a number of potential DUBs. The protein sequence homology of the putative UCH-L5 homologue was verified by Ub-AMC assay. The recombinant TsUCH37 homologue showed that the protein associates with putative proteasome components, including the yeast Rpn13 homologue ADRM1. In addition, the UCH inhibitor LDN-57444 exhibited specific inhibition of the recombinant protein. These results suggest that the interaction of this protein with the proteasomes has been conserved throughout evolution. We show potential for the use of inhibitor compounds to elucidate the role of UCH enzymes in T. spiralis infection and their investigation as therapeutic targets for trichines.
Chagas disease, also known as American trypanosomiasis, is a significant public health problem in Latin America. Although considered to be a neglected tropical disease ( NTD ), Chagas is becoming more prevalent outside Latin America due to increased migration. The anti-trypanosomal activity of these compounds may not be explained only by the inhibition of the enzyme, thereby triggering a putative polypharmacological profile towards cysteine proteases. The results of this study highlight two potential scenarios relevant to the discovery of new antichagasic agents even when the target is ‘known’. First, the anti-Trypanosome effects of the compounds could be due to engagement of one or more targets other than cruzain. Secondly, the molecular recognition characteristics of cruzipain may either differ from cruzine or be altered by post-translational modification, which would highlight the need for new structural models for cruzipine protease activity. Knowledge of the activity of 5, 11 and 12 could also be used to develop tools for the exploration of each scenario.
Maize ( Zea mays L. ) is one of the most important cereal crops and a model for the study of genetics, evolution, and domestication. To better understand maize genome organization and to build a framework for genome sequencing, we constructed a sequence-ready fingerprinted contig-based physical map that covers 93. 5% of the genome, of which 86. 1% is aligned to the genetic map. This map contains 25, 908 genic markers that enabled us to align nearly 73% of anchored maize genome to the rice genome. The distribution pattern of expressed sequence tags correlates to that of recombination. In collinear regions, 1 kb in rice corresponds to an average of 3. 2 kb in maize, yet maize has a 6-fold genome size expansion. This can be explained by the fact that most rice regions correspond to two regions in maize as a result of its recent polyploid origin. Inversions account for the majority of chromosome structural variations during subsequent maize diploidization. We also find clear evidence of ancient genome duplication predating the divergence of the progenitors of maize and rice.
Prions are the proteinaceous infectious agents responsible for Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies ( TSEs ), a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans, scrapie in sheep, bovine spongiform encephalopathy in cattle and chronic wasting disease in deer. The most common form of human prion disease is sporadic, which appears to have its origin in a low frequency event of spontaneous misfolding to generate the first PrPSc particle that then propagates as in the infectious form of the disease. The main goal of this study was to mimic an early event in the etiology of sporadic disease by attempting de novo generation of infectious PrP. We analyzed in detail the possibility of spontaneous generation of prPSc by the protein misfolded cyclic amplification ( PMCA ) procedure. Under standard PMCA conditions, and taking precautions to avoid cross-contamination, de nova generation of PrP was never observed, supporting the use of the technology for diagnostic applications. However, we report that PMCA can be modified to generate PrP in different animal species at a low and variable rate, producing a new disease phenotype with unique clinical, neuropathological and biochemical features. Our results represent additional evidence in support of the prion hypothesis and provide a simple model to study the mechanism of sporadic prion diseases.
The honeybee has long been known to control aspects of their flight by estimating the angular velocity ( the number of degrees per second subtended by a movement across the visual field, independent of the spatial frequency of the stimulus used ) of the environment around them. However, it has been previously known that the honeybee does not use the optomotor response, which is the insect behaviour analogous to the vestibular-ocular reflex in vertebrates. We propose a novel neurally based model for estimating angular velocity in the bee brain, capable of reproducing experimental observations of visual odometry and corridor-centering in free-flying honeybees, including previously unaccounted for manipulations of behaviour. The model is fitted using electrophysiological data, and tested using behavioural data. Based on our model we suggest that the AV response can be considered as an evolutionary extension to the optOMotor response.
Trypanosoma brucei gambiense is the main agent of sleeping sickness in the African continent during the twentieth century. The disease is fatal in the absence of clinical symptoms, and usually patients are systematically treated as soon as possible after diagnosis. However, questions on the existence of human trypanotolerance still remain. Here, we report on a long-term follow-up ( 15 years ) of a cohort of 50 human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) patients from the Ivory Coast among whom 11 refused treatment after their initial diagnosis. In 10 out of 11 subjects who continued to refuse treatment despite repeated visits, parasite clearance was observed using both microscopy and polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ). Most of these subjects ( 7/10 ) also displayed decreasing serological responses, becoming progressively negative to trypanomatous antigens ( LiTat 1. 3, 1. 5 and 1. 6 ). Hence, in addition to the “classic” lethal outcome of HAT, we show that alternative natural progressions of infection may occur: progression to an apparently aparasitaemic and asymptomatic infection associated with strong long-lasting serological response and progression to a progressive drop in antibody titres as observed in treated cases. From our point of view, recognising that Trypanotolerant persons exist in humans, as is now widely accepted for animals, is a major step forward for future research in the field of human HAT.
Cancer is caused by mutations in genes that encode oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. The carcinogenic effect of irradiation is mostly inferential, as irradiation induces multiple changes both within cells and in their microenvironment which could potentially affect the selective effects of some oncogenic mutations. P53 is a key tumor suppressant that mediates responses to a variety of cellular stresses and has well-characterized roles in mediating cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to genotoxic stress. The causal link between radiation exposure, p53 disruption, and cancers involves selection for p53 loss or depends entirely upon irradiation-induced mutagenesis at loci encoding proliferation control genes. Here, we show that p53-deficient hematopoietic progenitors are protected from irradiation by increased selection for cells with disrupted p53. We also show that the loss of p53 provides an immediate and sustained selective advantage, which translates into greater expansion of p3-defective clones and increased lymphoma development. These studies indicate that the carcinogenic effects of irradiating can be explained by increased selective for cells that lose p53, which protects progenitor cells both from immediate elimination and from long-term reductions in fitness following irradiation.
Helminth parasites are associated with protection from inflammatory conditions in both humans and animal models. One possible explanation resides that helminths drive the regulatory arm of the immune system, abrogating the ability of the host to expel the parasites, while also dampening reactivity to many inflammatory processes. Furthermore, these parasites or their products hold therapeutic potential for human inflammatory disorders. Parasitic helminths of genus Schistosoma, the agents of schistosomiasis, develop the capability to live for decades in the blood vessels of human host. In this study, we demonstrate that SmKI-1 is a key protein in S. mansoni survival and maintenance. We demonstrated the ability to inhibit early events that trigger neutrophil migration in the pleural cavities of mice in response to carrageenan. Furthermore we demonstrated that this molecule also robustly interferes with the enzyme activity of elastase released by murine neutrophils. Our findings have a strong impact on drug development and may represent an important new therapeutic strategy for treatment of inflammatory diseases.
Eukaryotic transmembrane helical ( TMH ) proteins perform a wide diversity of critical cellular functions, but remain structurally largely uncharacterized and their high-resolution structure prediction is currently hindered by the lack of close structural homologues. To address this problem, we present a novel and generic method for accurately modeling large TMH protein structures from distant homologs exhibiting distinct loop and TMH conformations. The method was stringently validated in two blind predictions where the generated models were top-ranked, and in a large benchmark dominated by pairs of membrane protein distant heterologues where starting templates were almost all significantly improved. The models are of suitable quality for computer-based protein engineering: redesigned models and redesigned X-ray structures exhibit very similar native interactions. This method should prove useful for the atom-level modeling and design of a large fraction of structurally uncharacterizable TMH proteins from a wide range of structural homologies.
Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis, a foodborne disease that poses serious risks to fetuses, newborns and immunocompromised adults. This intracellular bacterial pathogen proliferates in the cytosol and exploits the host actin polymerization machinery to spread from cell-to-cell and disseminate in the host. Here, we report that during several days of infection in human hepatocytes or trophoblast cells, Listeria-containing vacuoles ( LisCVs ) are formed in lysosome-like vacuole-like structures. During the subculture of host cells harboring LisCV bacteria showed a capacity to cycle between the vacuolar and the actin-based motility stages. When ActA was absent, such as in ΔactA mutants, vacuol bacteria parasitized host cells in the so-called “viable but non-culturable” state ( VBNC ), preventing their detection by conventional colony counting methods. The exposure of infected cells to high doses of gentamicin did not trigger the formation of LisCVS, but selected for vacuola and VB NC bacteria. Together, these results reveal the ability of L. monocytic pathogenes to enter a persistent state in a subset of epithelial cells, which may favor the asymptomatic carriage of this pathogen, lengthen the incubation period of listeria, and promote bacterial survival during antibiotic therapy.
Auditory scene analysis involves segregating a complex scene into individual objects or streams. A common stimulus used to study streaming involves alternating tone sequences organized in repeating ABA- triplets. The sequence can be perceived integrated in to one, or segregated into two streams A-A-B- and -B---B-. In this study we combine neuromechanistic modeling and psychoacoustic experiments to study these persistent alternations and to characterize the effects of manipulating stimulus parameters. Unlike many phenomenological models with abstract, percept-specific competition and fixed inputs, our network model comprises neuronal units with sensory feature dependent inputs that mimic the pulsatile-like A1 responses to tones in the ABA– triplets, and embodies a neuronal computation for percept competition thought to occur beyond primary auditory cortex ( A1 ). Mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise are implemented. We include slow NDMA recurrent excitation for local temporal memory that enables linkage across sound gaps from one triplet to the next. Percepts in our model are identified in the firing patterns of the neuronal units. We predict with the model that manipulations of the frequency difference between tones A and B should affect the dominance durations of the stronger percept, the one dominant a larger fraction of time, more than those of the weaker percept—a property that has been previously established and generalized across several visual bistable paradigms.
Schistosoma mansoni is a helminthic parasite which is well known to induce a strong Th2-biased response in their hosts, characterised by elevated levels of total and parasite-specific IgE, IL-4, IL5 and IL-13, with concomitant expansion and mobilization of specific effector cells. This IgE response is widely believed to have evolved to protect against ectoparasites and parasitic helminths, although this widespread view has been recently challenged. A better insight into the basic mechanisms of anti-parasite immunity could be gained from a genome-wide characterisation of such S. mansoni allergens. This would have repercussions on our understanding of allergy and the development of safe and efficacious vaccinations against helmintheric parasites. A complete medium- to high-throughput amenable workflow, including important quality controls, is described, which enables the rapid translation of S. manoni proteins using wheat germ lysate and subsequent assessment of potential allergenicity with a humanised rat basophilic leukaemia cell line. The suitability of this system is demonstrated using well characterised plant and parasitic allergens such as Par j 2, SmTAL-1 and the IgE binding factor IPSE/alpha-1, expressed in wheat germ and/or E. coli. This method offers an accessible way for assessment of the presence of parasite antigen-specific antibodies in infected individuals and is suitable for medium-to high-protein studies using infected individual sera.
Sexual reproduction allows selfish elements ( TEs ) to proliferate, leading to rapid divergence between populations and species. A significant outcome of divergence in the TE landscape is evident in hybrid dysgenic syndromes, a strong form of genomic incompatibility that can arise when TE family abundance differs between two parents. When TEs inherited from the father are absent in the mother's genome, TEs can become activated in the progeny, causing germline damage and sterility. Studies in Drosophila indicate that dysgenesis can occur when TEs that are inherited paternally are not matched with a pool of corresponding TE silencing PIWI-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) provisioned by the female germline. Using the D. virilis syndrome as a model, we characterize the effects that divergence in TE profile between parents has on offspring. Overall, we show that divergence is associated with persisting differences in TE expression when comparing genetically identical females of reciprocal crosses and these differences are transmitted to the next generation. Moreover, chronic and persisting TE expression coincides with increased levels of genic piRNA-mediated transgenerational effects on gene expression within populations. Together, these results support a model in which early germline events establish a chronic, stable state of both TE and gene expression in the germline that is maintained through adulthood and transmitted to generations.
Fragile X tremor ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a common inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat in the 5′UTR of the FMR1 gene. The expanded CGG repeat is thought to induce toxicity as RNA, and in FXS patients mRNA levels for FMR 1 are markedly increased. Despite the critical role of FMR protein ( FMRP ) in disease pathogenesis, the basis for the increase in FMR- mRNA expression is unknown. Here we show that overexpressing any of three histone deacetylases ( HDACs 3, 6, or 11 ) suppresses CGG-induced neurodegening in a Drosophila model of FXTas. This suppression results from selective transcriptional repression of the CGGrepeat–containing transgene. Consistent with this finding, histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) inhibitors selectively repress FMC1 mRNA expression to control levels in pre-mutation carrier cell lines and extend lifespan in CGG repeats–expressing Drosophyllus. These findings support a disease model whereby the expansion of CGG/CCG repeats promotes chromatin remodeling in cis, which in turn increases expression of the toxic FMR proteins. Moreover, these results provide proof of principle that HAT inhibitors or HDAC activators might be used to selectively repressor transcription at the FMC.
CD8 T cell responses are critical for the control of chronic viral infections. However, the genetic background of the host influences the extent of CD8 T cells exhaustion and viral clearance. In this study, we examined the impact of MHC heterogeneity versus non-MHC host genetics on the development of a chronic viral infection. We found that CD8 cells are important for clearing acute LCMV Arm infection and help to maintain viral control during chronic infection. Furthermore, CD4 T cell depletion prevented mortality in D2B6F1 mice. Thus, increased functionality of the T cell response allowed for more rapid viral clearance at the cost of enhanced immunopathology dependent on both MHC diversity and the genetic backgrounds of the human host.
Anthrax is a global re-emerging zoonotic disease and is an endemic disease in China, especially in rural regions. In this study, the general characteristics of human anthrax outbreaks that occurred in areas of northwestern China over the past decade have been described. Meanwhile, the genetic characteristics of Bacillus anthracis isolated from these areas from 1990 to 2016 were analyzed by means of canonical single-nucleotide polymorphism ( canSNP ) analysis and multilocus variable-number tandem repeat analysis ( MLVA ) with 15 markers. Five sublineages/subgroups, namely, A. Br. 001/002, A. Br. Vollum, A, Br. Aust94, A and Br. Ames and A. B. 008/009, were detected by using 13 canSNPs sites. All 106 strains were initially identified by MLVA15 genotypes, while one sublineage was found in Shaanxi, two in Gansu, three in Qinghai and four in Inner Mongolia. The strains collected from anthrax epidemics in recent decade were classified as subgroups MLVA 15-28, MLVA16-30, MLV15-31, MLVL15-38, ML VA15-CHN18, and MLVA17-CHNs18. By canSNp analysis and MLV, we found that the diversification of MLVA genotypes and the geographical distribution of B. anthraci populations is gradually becoming balanced across northwestern China, which will help promote the prevention and control of this important disease. This study also provides preliminary survey results regarding the population diversity of anthrax in China.
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli and related food and waterborne pathogens pose significant threats to human health. These attaching/effacing microbes infect the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells ( IEC ), causing severe diarrheal disease. Colonizing the intestinal luminal surface helps segregate these microbes from most host inflammatory responses. We hypothesized that host defense against these microbes relies largely on immune mediated changes in the intestinal epithelium, including goblet cells to defend against these pathogens. Here we report that goblets can also play an active and critical role in driving inflammation and intestinal remodeling, through the production of a cytokine, REsistin-Like Molecule ( RELM ) -β. RELM-β is strongly induced within goblett cells during C. rodentium infection, and was detected in the stool as well as serum. Despite its dramatic induction, RELM’s role in host defense is unclear. Thus, wildtype and RELM gene deficient mice ( Retnlb-/- ) were orally infected with Citrobacter rodentium, a pathogen of mice that causes severe intestinal and systemic diarrhea. Infection dramatically increased RELM–β levels within the intestine, resulting in increased IL-22 levels and IEC proliferation, while reducing mucosal pathology. These findings demonstrate that RELM and goblete cells play an unexpected, yet critical role, in recruiting CD4+ T cells to the colon to protect against an enteric pathogen, in part via the induction of increased IEC proliferating.
The murine norovirus ( MNV ) is a major cause of gastroenteritis in humans. MNV RNA is a single-stranded RNA virus that infects a variety of animals and is responsible for around 18% of all cases of acute diarrheal disease worldwide and an estimated 200, 000 deaths a year in children under 5 in developing nations. The MNV VPg protein is covalently attached to the 5´-end of the viral RNA and is required for translation initiation. In this study we have used pull-down assays, fluorescence anisotropy, and isothermal titration calorimetry ( ITC ) to demonstrate that a stretch of ~20 amino acids at the C terminus of the VPg-eIF4G protein mediates direct and specific binding to the HEAT-1 domain within the 4GM fragment of eIF4A. We have found that the VPG-eif4G binding site is non-overlapping with the binding site for eif4A on eIF-4G. Our findings provide important structural details of a functional interaction between VPg and eIF 4G and reveal a binding interface that might be exploited as a target for antiviral therapy.
Genes encoding proteins in a common metabolic pathway are often found near each other along bacterial chromosomes. Several explanations have been proposed to account for the evolution of these structures. For instance, natural selection may directly favour gene clusters through a variety of mechanisms, such as increased efficiency of coregulation. An alternative and controversial hypothesis is the selfish operon model, which asserts that clustered arrangements of genes are more easily transferred to other species, thus improving the prospects for survival of the cluster. According to another hypothesis ( the persistence model ), genes that are in close proximity are less likely to be disrupted by deletions. Here, we develop computational models to study the conditions under which gene clusters can evolve and persist. First, we examine the evolutionary model by re-implementing the simulation and running it under a wide range of conditions. Second, we introduce and study a Moran process in which there is natural selection for gene clustering and rearrangement occurs by genome inversion events. Finally, we study a model that includes selection and inversion, which tracks the occurrence and fixation of rearrangements. Surprisingly, gene clusters fail to evolve under a range of environmental conditions. Factors that promote the development of gene clusters include a low number of genes in the pathway, a high population size, and in the case of selfish operons is one. The computational analysis here has shown that the evolution can occur under both direct and indirect selection as long as certain conditions hold.
Malaria, caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum, is responsible for substantial morbidity, mortality and economic losses in tropical regions of the world. Pregnant women are exceptionally vulnerable to severe consequences of the infection, due to the specific adhesion of parasite-infected erythrocytes in the placenta. This adhesion is mediated by a unique variant of PfEMP1, a parasite encoded, hyper-variable antigen placed on the surface of infected cells. This variant, called VAR2CSA, binds to chondroitin sulfate A on syncytiotrophoblasts in the intervillous space of placentas. VAR 2CSA appears to only be expressed in the presence of a placental parasite, suggesting that its expression is actively repressed in men, children or non-pregnant. Using cultured parasites and reporter gene constructs, we show that the gene encoding VAR3CSA contains a small upstream open reading frame that acts to repress translation of the resulting mRNA, revealing a novel form of gene regulation in malaria parasites. The mechanism underlying this translational repression is reversible, allowing high levels of protein translation upon selection, thus potentially enabling parasites to upregulate expression of this variant antigen in the absence of the appropriate host tissue.
Infection with dengue viruses ( DENV ) leads to a spectrum of disease outcomes. The pathophysiology of severe versus non-severe manifestations of DENV infection may be driven by host responses, which could be reflected in the transcriptional profiles of peripheral blood immune cells. We conducted genome-wide microarray analysis of whole blood RNA from 34 DENV-infected children in Nicaragua collected on days 3–6 of illness, with different disease manifestations. Gene expression analysis identified genes that are differentially regulated between clinical subgroups. The most striking transcriptional differences were observed between dengues patients with and without shock, especially in the expression of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins associated with protein biosynthesis. In the dengu hemorrhagic fever patients, one subset of differentially expressed genes encode neutrophil-derived anti-microbial peptides associated with innate immunity. By performing a meta-analysis of our dataset in conjunction with previously published datasets, we confirmed that DENV in vivo is associated with large changes to protein and nucleic acid metabolism. Additionally, whereas in vitro infection leads to an increased interferon signature, this was not consistently observed from in vivo patient samples. These data highlight important differences between different manifestations of severity during DENV infections as well as identify some commonalities. Compilation of larger datasets in the future across multiple studies, as we have initiated in this report, may well lead to better prediction of disease manifestation via a systems biology approach.
Herpesviruses are ubiquitous pathogens that cause much disease. The difficulty of clearing their established infections makes host entry an important target for disease control. However, while herpesviruses have been studied extensively in vitro, how they cross differentiated mucus-covered epithelia in vivo is unclear. To establish general principles we tracked host entry by Murid Herpesvirus-4 ( MuHV-4 ), a lymphotropic rhadinovirus related to the Kaposi's Sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ). Spontaneously acquired virions targeted the olfactory neuroepithelium. Like many herpesvirus, MuHVs-4 binds to heparan sulfate ( HS ), and virions unable to bind HS showed poor host entry. Incoming virions tracked down the neuronal cilia, and either infected neurons or reached the underlying microvilli of the adjacent glial ( sustentacular ) cells and infected them. Thus the neuroepitalium provides an important and complex site of HS-dependent viral uptake.
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium is a common gastrointestinal pathogen. During the infection process, Salmonella relies on the expression of genes encoded on the pathogenicity island I ( SPI-1 ). The expression of these genes is tightly regulated and activated only under specific conditions. In this study, we describe a new regulatory circuit involving CRP-cAMP, a widely established metabolic regulator, in silencing of SPI-2 genes under non-permissive conditions. We found that CRP is involved in a post-transcriptional regulatory circuit, controlling the expression in the mid-logarithmic growth phase. This regulation occurs at the level of HilD, the master regulator of Salmonellosis, and requires the presence of a newly identified regulatory motif within the hilD 3’UTR. Our results highlight the biological relevance of the Hfq-dependent sRNA Spot 42, which is under the transcriptional repression of CRP, and suggest that Spot 42 exerts a positive effect on hil-D expression. Our study highlights the emerging importance of collaborative activities of general transcription factors and sRNAs to precisely adjust the costly expression of major virulence factors to internal and external metabolic cues.
The expansion of trinucleotide repeats ( TNRs ) is the causative mutation of more than fifteen neurodegenerative, neurological and neuromuscular genetic diseases, including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 ( FXS ). CAG/CTG expansions are unstable in selective somatic tissues, which accelerates disease progression. The mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex, and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to the process. To address these issues, we investigated the relationship between CAG instability, chromatin structures, and transcription at the HD locus using the R6/1 and R6-2 HD transgenic mouse lines. We show that CAG stability is increased in R6 and in the cerebellum, two tissues with very different CAG structure and chromatin accessibility. Interestingly, the levels of elongating RNA Pol II at the H3K4 trimethylation, a mark associated with transcription elongation, were tissue-specific and correlated with CAG stabilization levels. Our data suggest for the first time that transcription elongating mRNA and elongating RN Pol II are regulated in a tissue-dependent manner, contributing to tissue-selective CAG destabilization.
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the most virulent enteroviruses, but the specific molecular features that enhance its ability to disseminate in humans remain unknown. We analyzed the genomic features of EV71 in an immunocompromised host with disseminated disease according to the different sites of infection. Comparison of five full-length genomes sequenced directly from respiratory, gastrointestinal, nervous system, and blood specimens revealed three nucleotide changes that occurred within a five-day period: a non-conservative amino acid change in VP1 located within the BC loop ( L97R ), a region considered as an immunogenic site and possibly important in poliovirus host adaptation; a conservative amino acid substitution in protein 2B ( A38V ) ; and a silent mutation in protein 3D ( L175 ). Comparative models of these EV71 VP1 variants were built to determine how the substitutions might affect VP1 structure and/or interactions with host cells and suggest that, while no significant structural changes were observed, the substitution may have contributed to dissemination and neurotropism. Taken together, our results show that the VP197R sequence present in the EV71 BC loop region of the viral genome plays a critical role in cell tropism independent of the virus lineage and, thus, may have played a role in dissemination and neurovirulence.
The ability of bacteria to import extracellular DNA is central to bacterial evolution and allows for the rapid acquirement of new traits, such as antibiotic resistance in pathogenic microorganisms. In the Gram-positive bacteria genus Streptococcus, genes required for competence are under the regulation of quorum sensing ( QS ) mediated by peptide pheromones. One such system, ComRS, consists of a peptide ( ComS ) that is processed ( XIP ), secreted, and later imported into the cytoplasm, where it binds and activates the transcription factor ComR. ComR then engages in a positive feedback loop for the expression of ComS and the alternative sigma-factor SigX. Although ComRS are present in the majority of Streptobacillaceae species, the sequence of both ComS/XIP and ComR diverge significantly, suggesting a mechanism for species-specific communication. To study possible cross-talk between streptococcal species in the control of competence, and to explore in detail the molecular interaction between ComR and XIP we undertook an interdisciplinary approach. We developed a ‘test-bed’ assay to measure the activity of different ComR proteins in response to cognate and heterologous XIP peptides in vivo, revealing distinct ComR classes of strict, intermediate, and promiscuous specificity among species. Our results not only provide a model for XIP recognition and specificity, but also allow for the prediction of novel XIP-induced ComR activity.
Centromeres are essential components of eukaryotic chromosomes required for proper chromosome segregation to daughter cells. Lack of a functional centromere, or the presence of multiple centromeres, renders chromosomes unstable and prone to mis-segregation and breakage. An intriguing property of most eukeryotic centromres that remains poorly explained is their mode of inheritance. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, centromeric DNA is maintained at specific chromosomal positions in a highly robust manner that is crucial for ensuring high-fidelity chromosome segregation. Here we use the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans as a model organism to study the DNA replication properties of centromeeric DNA. By determining the genome-wide replication timing program of the yeast genome, we discovered that each centromeere is associated with a replication origin that is the first to fire on its respective chromosome. Importantly, epigenetic formation of new ectopic centromes ( neocentromeres ) was accompanied by shifts in replication timing, such that a neocentromere became first to replicate and became associated with origin recognition complex ( ORC ) components. Furthermore, changing the level of the centromer-specific histone H3 isoform led to a concomitant change in levels of ORC association with centrome regions, further supporting the idea that centromera proteins determine origin activity. Thus, DNA replication timing can serve as the basis for the inheritance of functional centromere position.
Back pain is the #1 cause of years lived with disability worldwide, yet surprisingly little is known regarding the biology underlying this symptom. We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) of chronic back pain ( CBP ) in 15 cohorts from 16 cohorts in the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology ( CHARGE ) consortium, and from the UK Biobank interim data release. CBP cases were defined as those reporting back pain present for ≥3–6 months; non-cases were included as comparisons ( “controls” ). We found that CBP was most strongly associated with rs12310519 in an intronic region of the SOX5 gene. The SOX genes are a family of transcription factors involved in virtually all phases of embryonic development, and are thought to determine the fate of many cell types, such as disc herniation or osteoarthritis of spinal structures. We also found that the intronic variant in SOX6 was associated with CBP in a 2-stage joint meta-analysis ( CCDC26/GSDMC and DCC ). Our findings suggest that CBPs may be involved in a range of neurodegenerative diseases, including back pain, osteoarritis, lumbar disc degeneration, and height/vertebral development.
Taenia solium cysticercosis is an important zoonotic disease of man and pigs in many developing countries. The disease is neglected due to the large variety of clinical symptoms, epilepsy being recognised as the most important one, and the unavailability of appropriate diagnostic tools in endemic areas. Therefore, there is a lack of reliable data on the disease burden of cysticerosis. This study evaluated the cost and the Disability Adjusted Life Year ( DALY ) estimations of the disease in West Cameroon using country-specific parameters and including the human as well as the animal burden of the zoonosis. The monetary burden per case of cystercosis amounts to 194 Euro ( 95% CR 147–253 ), which is about 4 times higher than estimates already available for some other neglected tropical diseases. The estimated number of DalYs lost probably underestimate the real values because the estimations have been based on epilepsy as the only symptom of the parasite.
Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that has evolved complex regulatory circuits allowing rapid adaption of cell growth in response to its diverse hosts and ecological niches. In this study, we show that the small non-coding RNA RsaA is a virulence suppressor of acute infections. We show that Rsa is functional in all clinical isolates of S. Aureus studied so far but is not differentially expressed depending on the level of invasiveness ranging from commensalism to deep-seated infections. Our study demonstrates that the transcriptional regulator MgrA is activated by the transcription factor Rsa, which is required for the production of biofilm and for the synthesis of capsule formation in several strain backgrounds. Mice animal models showed that the expression of rsaA attenuates the severity of acute systemic infections and enhances chronic catheter infection. Our work provides a new example of a conserved small RNA that contributes to the complex interactions of the bacterium with the host immune system to moderate invasivity and favour chronic infections.
HIV-1 particles contain a cone-shaped capsid that encodes the viral genomic RNA, nucleocapsid ( NC ) and reverse transcriptase proteins. After HIV-1 fuses with a target cell, the released viral cores go through a series of carefully orchestrated steps that ultimately lead to productive infection. A key early step of HIV-2 entry—referred to as uncoating—is generally defined as ( full or partial ) shedding of CA from the viral core. This incompletely understood process is generally defined by the shedding of the viral capsid from the virus core. Here we report a novel approach to visualize HIV-3 uncoated in living cells, using a fluorescently tagged oligomeric form of a capsid-binding host protein, CypA-DsRed, which is specifically packaged into virions through the high-avidity binding to capsid ( CA ). We show that the majority of single cores lose CypA, while a small fraction remains intact for several hours. The loss of CypA is dependent on reverse transcription and is delayed upon inhibition of reverse transcription. Our novel imaging assay thus enables time-resolved visualization of single HIV-4 uncoatin in living cell, and reveals the previously unappreciated spatio-temporal features of this incompletely known process.
Oligonucleotide frequencies are a long chain of overlapping oligonucleotides, and frequencies of differently sized oligonotide frequencies can reveal different properties and patterns of bacterial and archaeal genomes. In addition, the distributions of these frequencies can be linked to a number of properties, including codon usage, DNA base-stacking energy, and DNA structural conformation ( di- to tetranucleotide frequencies ). We wanted to assess the statistical information potential of different DNA ‘word-sizes’ and explore how these frequencies differ in coding and non-coding regions. Among the results found was that prokaryotic chromosomes can be described by hexanucleotide frequency, suggesting that the amount of information in these genomes is predominantly short range correlated, i. e., information in prokiaryotic genomes is encoded in short-range correlated oligonsotides. Oligonotide usage varied more within AT and host-associated genomes than in GC-rich and free-living genomes. GC rich genomes were more similar and biased in terms of tetranotide usage in non-Coding regions than AT rich genomes. The differences found between AT-rich genomes may possibly be attributed to lifestyle, since tetran nucleotide usage within host-host-associated bacteria was, on average, more dissimilar and less biased than free- living archaea and bacteria.
Meiotic recombination ensures the correct segregation of homologous chromosomes during gamete formation and contributes to DNA diversity through both large-scale reciprocal crossovers and very localised gene conversion events, also known as noncrossovers. Considerable progress has been made in understanding factors such as PRDM9 and SNP variants that influence the initiation of recombination at human hotspots but very little is known about factors acting downstream. To address this, we simultaneously analysed both types of recombinant molecule in sperm DNA at six hotspots, and looked for disparity in the transmission of allelic variants indicative of any cis-acting influences. At two of the hotspots we identified a novel form of biased transmission that was exclusive to the noncrossover class, and which presumably arises through differences between crossover and nonc crossover in heteroduplex formation and biased mismatch repair. This form of bias gene conversion is not predicted to influence hotspot activity as previously noted for SNPs that affect recombination initiation, but does constitute a powerful and previously undetected source of meiotic drive that by extrapolation may affect tens of thousands of human recombination hotspots throughout the genome.
The potential effect of environmental chemicals and drugs on human health is a major concern. A better understanding of the underlying mechanism of action of chemicals and the biological pathways they perturb is needed to fully evaluate the impact of small molecules on humans. In this paper we present a computational systems biology model that can associate chemicals to disease and identify potential molecular targets based on the integration of toxicogenomics data, chemical structures, protein-protein interaction data, disease information and functional annotation. Our approach is not only a statistical model but mimics the true biological system by constructing a network of associations between human proteins defined as Protein-Protein Association Network ( P-PAN ). We have validated our network by comparison with two high confidence protein- protein interaction ( PPI ) networks, and by assessing the functional enrichment of clusters in the network generated. The results of our network revealed both known as well as many novel surprising connections between chemicals and diseases.
Cortical sensory neurons are commonly characterized by their spectrotemporal receptive fields, the spectral and temporal features of a sound that linearly drive a neuron. However, receptive fields do not capture the fact that the response of a cortical neuron results from the complex nonlinear network in which it is embedded. By fitting a nonlinear feedforward network model ( a network receptive field ) to auditory cortical responses to natural sounds, we reveal that primary auditory cortical neurons are sensitive over a substantially larger spectroemporal domain than is seen in their standard spectrotemeporal receptive field models. Furthermore, the network receptive fields are a parsimonious network consisting of 1–7 sub-receptive fields that interact nonlinearly, consistently better predicts neural responses to auditory stimuli than the standard receptive fields. These nonlinear properties enable neurons to show increased selectivity for particular complex spectrotemsporal structures, and may constitute an important stage in the sound recognition process.
The mammalian circadian clock oscillator is composed of a set of transcription factors ( clock proteins ) that act in transcriptional–translational feedback loops and drive rhythmic expression of approximately 10% of the mammalian transcriptome. In this study, we investigated the universal role and oscillatory mechanism of the circadian CK2-mediated BMAL1-S90 phosphorylation. We found that CRY proteins are repressor for protein kinase activity and that the cyclic CK2–mediated mechanism is a critical event in the circadian core clock machinery. We propose a dual negative-feedback model in which a CRY-dependent CK2/2-driven posttranslating BMAL-P-BMAL1 loop is an integral part of the core circadian oscillator.
Bile is a fluid containing bile salts, cholesterol, and a variety of proteins and electrolytes. Bile salts disrupt membranes, denature proteins, and damage DNA. Salmonella adapt to bile by growing on sublethal concentrations of sodium deoxycholate ( DOC ), a bile salt. The bile-resistance level of wild type bacteria can be increased over the customary minimal inhibitory concentration of bile. This phenomenon, henceforth called “preadaptation”, seems to involve two unrelated processes: one is mutation in specific loci, often related to lipopolysaccharide transport; another is activation of the bile resistance responses in a subpopulation of bacterial cells. The latter phenomenon fits well in current views indicating that bacterial populations are heterogeneous, and that fluctuations in gene expression can have adaptive value.
The E. coli chromosome is compacted by segregation into 400–500 supercoiled domains by both active and passive mechanisms, for example, transcription and DNA-protein association. We find that prophage Mu is organized as a stable domain bounded by the proximal location of Mu termini L and R, which are 37 kbp apart on the Mu genome. The formation/maintenance of the Mu ‘domain’ configuration, reported by Cre-loxP recombination and 3C ( chromosome conformation capture ), is dependent on a strong gyrase site ( SGS ) at the center of Mu, the Mu L end and MuB protein, and the E. coli nucleoid proteins IHF, Fis and HU. The Mu domain was observed at two different chromosomal locations tested. The establishment/main maintenance of the mu domain was promoted by low-level transcription from two phage promoters, one of which was domain dependent. We propose that the domain confers transposition readiness to Mu by fostering topological requirements of the reaction and the proximity of Mu ends. The potential benefits to the host cell from a subset of proteins expressed by the prophages may in turn help its long-term stability.
Primaquine ( PQ ) is the only currently licensed antimalarial that prevents Plasmodium vivax ( Pv ) relapses. It also clears mature P. falciparum ( Pf ) gametocytes, thereby reducing post-treatment transmission. Randomized PQ treatment in a treatment-to-reinfection cohort in Papua New Guinean children permitted the study of Pv and Pf gametocyte carriage after radical cure and to investigate the contribution of Pv relapses to Pv infection parameters. Children received radical cure with Chloroquine, Artemether-Lumefantrine plus either PQ or placebo. Blood samples were subsequently collected in 2-to 4-weekly intervals over 8 months. Gametocytes were detected by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR targeting pvs25 and pfs25. PQ treated reduced the incidence of Pv gametocytaemia by 73%, which was comparable to the effect of PQ on incidence of blood-stage infections. No difference between the PQ and placebo treatment arms was observed in density of Pv parasites or in the proportion of Pv infections that carried gameteocytes. First infections after blood-day and placebo treatments, likely caused by a relapsing hypnozoite, were equally likely to carry gametosome. Relapses thus contribute considerably to the Pv reservoir highlighting the importance of efficient control of Pv. ClinicalTrials. gov NCT02143934
The Rho family of GTPases control actin organization during diverse cellular responses ( migration, cytokinesis and endocytosis ). Although the primary members of this family ( RhoA, Rac and Cdc42 ) have different downstream effects on actin remodeling, the basic mechanism involves targeting to the plasma membrane and activation by GTP binding. Our hypothesis is that the details of the GTPase cycling between membrane and cytosol are key to the differential upstream regulation of these biochemical switches. Accordingly, we developed a modeling framework to analyze experimental data for these systems. This analysis can reveal details of GDI-mediated cycling and help distinguish between GDI dependent and -independent mechanisms, including vesicle trafficking and direct association-dissociation of GFPase with membrane molecules. In a similar fashion, the charts can be used as a guide in assessing how targeted modifications may compensate for altered GTP-GDI balance in disease scenarios.
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by parasitic worms which may infect the intestines ( Schistosoma mansoni or S. japonicum ) or urinary tract ( S. haematobium ). The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has set goals of morbidity control and elimination as a public health problem for schistosome infections. Prevalence and intensity of infection data are typically collected from school-aged children ( SAC ) as they are relatively easy to sample and are thought to be most likely to be infected by schisto parasites. However, adults are also likely to also be infected. We use three different age-intensity profiles of infection for Schisto mansoni with low, moderate and high burdens of infection in adults to investigate how the age distribution of infection impacts the WHO goals. We find that for moderate prevalence regions, regardless of the burden of infection ( adults, treating SAC only may achieve the WHO targets ) but for high prevalence regions with a high burden of infections in adults, adult treatment is required to meet the WHO goal. Hence, we show that the optimal treatment strategy for a defined region requires consideration of the prevalence of infection and intensity in adults as it cannot be solely based solely on the prevalence. Furthermore, we discuss additional epidemiological data, such as individual longitudinal adherence to treatment, that should ideally be collected in M&E programmes to determine the progress of treatment strategies.
Epilepsy is a spectrum of disorders characterised by recurrent seizures originating in the brain. When drug therapies fail, surgery is an alternative treatment option for many patients. In this study we apply a computational model of epilepsy to patient specific structural connectivity derived from diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) of 22 individuals with left TLE and 39 healthy controls. We validate the model by examining patient-control differences in simulated seizure onset time and network location. We find that, first, patients tend to transit from non-epileptic to epileptic states more often than controls in the model. Second, regions in the left hemisphere ( particularly within temporal and subcortical regions ) that are known to be involved in TLE are the most frequent starting points for seizures in patients in the simulation. In addition, our analysis also implicates regions of the contralateral and frontal locations which may play a role in seizure spreading or surgery resistance. Finally, the model predicts that patient-specific surgery ( resection areas chosen on an individual, model-prompted, basis and not following a predefined procedure ) may lead to better outcomes than the currently used routine clinical procedure. Taken together this work provides a first step towards patient specific computational modelling of epilepsy surgery in order to inform treatment strategies in individuals.
Human herpesvirus 8 ( HHV-8 ) is associated with the endothelial tumor Kaposi's sarcoma in addition to the B cell malignancies primary effusion lymphoma ( PEL ) and multicentric Castleman's disease. Several genes, including vIRF-1, have been noted to have oncogenic capacity in culture and in in vivo models. However, most of these genes are expressed during productive, lytic replication, suggesting that they do not play direct roles in malignant pathogenesis, but rather serve to enhance virus production by countering innate cellular defenses. Here we identify a novel mechanism of Bim inactivation, via nuclear sequestration, mediated by the viral interferon regulatory factors ( vIRFs ) 1–4. The data presented reveal a new mechanism utilized by a virus to control replication-induced apoptosis and suggest that inhibitory targeting of BIM or any other member of the family may provide an effective antiviral strategy.
Infection with a variety of infectious pathogens can result in severe lung injury ( ALI ), which can lead to death. Integrins are heterodimers composed of α and β subunits that regulate a plethora of cellular functions including cell-matrix and cell-cell adhesion, cell activation, and the recognition and post-translational processing of molecules. In this context, αVβ6 integrin plays a key role in controlling several steps in lung homeostasis. We show that β6-deficient mice have increased survival during influenza infection likely due to the limited viral spread into the alveolar spaces leading to reduced ALI. However, for short-term protection against the adverse consequences of potentially lethal pulmonary viral infections, our work identifies the αV β6 integin as a potentially attractive therapeutic target for transient intervention in lung viral infection.
Leishmania braziliensis is the species most frequently implicated with cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis in the Americas; its diagnosis is based on the identification of amastigotes in lesions, which is limited by low parasite burden. Leishmanin Skin Test ( LST ) is a support tool for diagnosis, based on delayed type hypersensitivity responses to Leishmania antigens injected intradermally, used in endemic areas as a complement to diagnosis. A retrospective analysis of over 700 patients evaluated for their first episode of tegumentary leishmanniasis at a reference center in Argentina during the period 2006–2015 was performed, with the goal of assessing its usefulness as a diagnostic complement in the diagnosis of leishmania. Demographic, clinical and diagnostic work-up were analyzed in individuals with clinically compatible lesions, lesion`s smear and LST. A total of 733 cases that met the case definition were included in the analysis; 678 ( 93% ) localized cutaneous cases, 50 ( 7% ) with mucosal involvement and 5 ( <1% ) disseminated. Diagnostic confirmation was reached in 474 ( 65% ) cases through positive smears from skin or mucosal lesions, with only 6 cases among this group having negative LST, but in 69 instances LST was positive. The results are most significant at confirming the high sensitivity and specificity of this diagnostic tool even in a highly endemic area. Standardization of this technique and further research into its most adequate preparation and utilization protocols across different sites will help in the management of suspicious clinical cases.
Coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Most cases are caused by atherosclerosis, a form of chronic inflammation in arterial walls that involves the accumulation of lipid-containing plaques. Blood levels of low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) are a major environmentally-influenced risk factor for CAD and one of the more successful preventative treatments, statin therapy, lowers LDL levels. A greater understanding of the molecular events by which lipoprotein causes atherosclerotic plaque is a prerequisite for rational development of new therapies targeting this aspect of atherosssclerosis. In this study we used epigenetic techniques to map chromatin structure at cis-regulatory elements to study the interacting effects of an environmental lipid-induced transformation of macrophages to lipid-laden foam cells. OxLDL-regulated enhancers were enriched for several transcription factors including C/EBP-beta, which has no previously documented role in foam cell formation. We found that oxLDL exposure up-regulated expression of genes involved in lipids and increased genomic binding events, most prominently around genes that are involved in inflammatory response pathways. Our results demonstrate a genetic mechanism contributing to CAD risk at the PPAP2B locus and highlight the value of studying epigenetic changes in disease processes involving pathogenic environmental stimuli.
Trachoma is a major public health problem in at least 42 countries. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommends that in districts with a trachoma sign trachomatous inflammation—follicular ( TF1-9 )—the district-level prevalence of TF in 1–9-year-olds should be re-estimated at sub-district-level. In this study, we report on the impact surveys conducted after a single round of azithromycin treatment in Malawi districts with TF of 5. 0–9. 9. The study demonstrates that one round of well-conducted, relatively high-coverage MDA with ~80% coverage associates with a reduction in TF prevalence to <5. 0%. Further evidence for this approach should be collected elsewhere.
Nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat ( NLR ) protein complexes sense infections and trigger robust immune responses in plants and humans. Activation of plant NLR resistance ( R ) proteins by pathogen effectors launches convergent immune responses, including programmed cell death ( PCD ), reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and transcriptional reprogramming with elusive mechanisms. Functional genomic and biochemical genetic screens identified six closely related Arabidopsis Ca2+-dependent protein kinases ( CPKs ) in mediating bifurcate immune responses activated by NLR proteins, RPS2 and RPM1. Sustained CPK4/5/6/11 activation directly phosphorylates a specific subgroup of WRKY transcription factors, WRKY8/28/48, for NLR-dependent restriction of pathogen growth, whereas CPK1/2/4/11 phosphorylate plasma membrane-resident NADPH oxidases for ROS production and contribute to PCD. Our studies delineate bifurbcation of complex signaling mechanisms downstream of NLR immune sensors mediated by the myriad action of CPK with distinct substrate specificity and subcellular dynamics.
Schistosoma sp., also known as bilharzias, is a neglected tropical disease that infects more than 500 and 200 million individuals in 77 countries, respectively. Although sub-clinical Schistosomas sp. infection detrimentally impacts the health of infected individuals, the enormous impact of seemingly asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic infection remains difficult to quantify. Furthermore, Schistoma sp. incidence continues to rise because of 1 ) numerous irrigation and hydro-electric projects, 2 ) steady shifts from nomadic to sedentary existence, and 3 ) ineffective control programs unable to cope with population growth. In this longitudinal retrospective ( 01/1996–06/2004 ) S. haematobium time-series for the district of Niono, Mali, was fitted with general-purpose exponential smoothing ( ES ) methods to generate contemporaneous on-line forecasts. These methods, which are encapsulated within a state–space framework, accommodate seasonal and inter-annual time series fluctuations. Mean absolute percentage error values were circa 25% for 1- to 5-month horizon forecasts. Therefore, this framework could assist with managing and assessing S. HaematOBium transmission and intervention impact, respectively, in this district and potentially elsewhere in the Sahel.
Herpesviruses are particularly well suited for multifaceted interactions with the cell cycle machinery, owing to the large coding capacity of their genomes. The repertory of herpesviral cell cycle regulators comprises on the one hand factors leading to constitutive activation of the cell cell cycle. This is exemplified by the β and γ-herpesviral orthologs of cyclins and CDKs, which release CDK substrate phosphorylation from the control of cellular cyclin-CDKs. On the other hand, herpesviruses target cellular cyclins to arrest the cell division cycle for their own benefit. Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) encodes a second RXL-type cyclin A-binding protein, pp150, that is neither an activator nor an inhibitor of the cellular cell cycle but is itself subject of cyclin C-dependent regulation. Here we show that pp150 and pUL21a functionally cooperate, together constituting a cell cycle synchronization strategy of CDK targeting and avoidance that is essential for productive HCMVs infection.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive degeneration of motor neurons, ultimately leading to paralysis and death. Approximately 10% of ALS cases are familial, with the remaining 90% of cases being sporadic. Genetic studies in familial cases of ALS have been extremely informative in determining the causative mutations behind ALS, especially as the same mutations identified in familial ALS can also cause sporadic disease. However, the cause of ALS in approximately 30% of familial cases and in the majority of sporadic cases remains unknown. Sporadic ALS cases represent an underutilized resource for genetic information about ALS; therefore, we undertook a targeted sequencing approach of 169 known and candidate ALS disease genes in 242 sporadic ALS cases and 129 matched controls to try to identify novel variants linked to ALS. We found a significant enrichment in novel and rare variants in cases versus controls, indicating that we are likely identifying disease associated mutations. This study highlights the utility of next generation sequencing techniques combined with functional studies and rare variant analysis tools to provide insight into the genetic etiology of sporadic ALS.
Influenza virus is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in humans infected with the virus. The emergence of new strains of influenza virus poses an increasing pandemic threat underlining the need for further studies into generation of anti-viral immunity. A consideration of how cytokines modulate cellular immune responses will facilitate a better understanding of the interplay between such pathogens and the immune system and provide rationale for enhancing vaccine efficacy. Interleukin ( IL ) -6 has recently re-emerged as an important regulator of T cell proliferation and survival. Since IL-6 is abundant following infection with influenza virus, we analyzed virus-specific T cell activity in both wild type and IL -6 deficient mice. Studies outlined herein highlight a novel role for IL- 6 in the development of CD4+ T cell memory to influenza virus. Specifically, we find that CD4− but not CD8+ T cells are critically dependent upon IL-8. This effect of IL-7 includes its ability to suppress CD4-CD25+ regulatory T cells ( Tregs ). We demonstrate that influenza-induced IL-1 limits the activity of virus-regs, thereby facilitating the activity and survival of virus–specific memory CD4 + T cells. These experiments reveal a critical role for the cytokine milieu induced in response to antigenic challenge in the absence of IL6. These findings suggest that IL-5 plays an essential role in shaping the immune response, thereby ensuring that antigen-specific memory T cells have no opportunity to down-modulate the response.
The Dnmt family of proteins consists of three active DNA m5C-MTases: DnMT1, DnMt3a and DnMD3b. Dnmt2 is the only active DNA methyltransferase in the Dnnt family. Dmts2 is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 2-methylcytosine to phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ). Enolase, which is known to catalyze the conversion from 2-phosphoglycerate to PEP, was shown to have both a cytoplasmatic and a nuclear localization in the parasite Entamoeba histolytica. This unexpected inhibitory activity was antagonized by 2-PG, which suggests that glucose metabolism controls the non-glycolysis function of enolase. Interestingly, glucose starvation drives enolases to accumulate within the nucleus, which in turn leads to the formation of additional enol-Ehmeth complex, and to a significant reduction of the tRNAAsp methylation in this parasite. These results establish enol as the first Dnmethyl2 interacting protein, and highlight an unexpected role of a glycosyltic enzyme in the modulation of Dnmlt2 activity.
Mosquitoes are a significant public health concern due to their ability to transmit a variety of emerging and reemerging arboviruses. Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is an excellent example of globalization of a mosquito borne disease, as evident from the CHIKVs epidemics in the past seven years. The presence of Ae. aegypti and Aedes albopticus saliva causes a differential host immune response to CHikV infections in mice, suppresses recruitment of T cells to the initial bite site thus enhancing West Nile virus dissemination and modulating Rift Valley Fever virus pathogenicity in mice. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the identification of exogenous mosquito saliva microRNAs. Identification of several miRNAs only in the CHikungovirus infected saliva suggests a possible importance in CHIK virus transmission and establishment of infection in the vertebrate host.
Mitochondria contain an independently maintained genome that encodes several proteins required for cellular respiration. Deletions in the mitochondrial genome have been identified that cause several maternally inherited diseases and are associated with certain cancers and neurological disorders. Our current understanding of the maintenance and repair of mtDNA is quite limited compared to our understanding of similar events in the nucleus. Many nuclear DNA repair proteins are now known to also localize to mitochondria, but their function and the mechanism of their action remain largely unknown. This study investigated the contribution of the nuclear double-strand break repair ( DSBR ) proteins Rad51p, Rad52p and Rad59p in mtDNA repair. We have determined that both Rad51P and Rad58p are localized to the matrix of the mitochondria and that they bind directly to mitochondrial DNA. In addition, a mitochondrially-targeted restriction endonuclease ( mtLS-KpnI ) was used to produce a unique double strand break ( DSB ) that allowed direct analysis of DSB repair in vivo in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We find that loss of these three proteins significantly decreases the rate of spontaneous deletion events and the loss of Rad51 p and Rad57p impairs the repair of induced mtDNA DSBs.
Rheumatic heart disease ( RHD ) is a major disease burden among disadvantaged populations globally. It results from acute rheumatic fever ( ARF ), a complication of Group A Streptococcal ( GAS ) infection. These conditions are acknowledged as diseases of poverty, however the role of specific social and environmental factors in GAS infection and progression to ARF/RHD is not well understood. The aim of this systematic review was to determine the association between social determinants of health and ARF and RHD, and the effect of interventions targeting these determinants. We conducted a systematic review using PubMed, the Cochrane Library and Embase. Findings for each factor were assessed against the Bradford Hill criteria for evidence of causation. Crowding was the most assessed factor, followed by socioeconomic status. The majority of studies assessing crowding, dwelling characteristics, education and employment status of parents or cases, and nutrition, reported a positive association with risk of ARF, ARF or RHD. Crowded and socioeconomic status satisfactorily met the criteria of a causal association. The extensive literature examining the role and social determinant in G AS infection, ARFs and RD presents a practical target for prevention actions.
A single mutation can lead to significant changes in a protein's functional properties. However, networks of interacting proteins can have system-level characteristics that bear a complex relationship to the intrinsic properties of the component molecules. It remains a challenge to identify aspects of network architectures that promote versatility and permit novel properties to emerge by a few mutations to network components. In this study, we show that a single point mutation in the histidine kinase PhoQ results in a remarkable change in phenotype, with cells exhibiting bistability/bimodality and an inverted response to stimuli. The mutant cells in on and off states have different morphologies, and their state is inherited over many generations. Interestingly, external conditions that repress signaling in the wild-type drive the mutant to the on state. Mathematical modeling and experiments suggest that the bistable phenotype depends on positive autoregulation of the two key proteins in the circuit, PhoP and PhOQ. The qualitatively different characteristics of the mutant come at a substantial fitness cost. Relative to the off state, the on-state has a lower fitness in stationary phase cultures in rich medium ( LB ). The on state can be epigenetically trapped in a low-fitness state. Our results demonstrate the remarkable versatility of the prototypical two-component signaling architecture and highlight the tradeoffs in the particular case of the Phoq/PhoP system.
Naegleria fowleri is a free-living amoeba that occasionally infects humans. The disease is particularly problematic due to both its rapid onset and the lack of effective treatments. Currently, there is no single, proven, evidence-based treatment with a high probability of cure. In the absence of economic inducements to invest in development of anti-PAM drugs by the pharmaceutical industry, anti-drug discovery largely relies on drug ‘repurposing’—a cost effective strategy to apply known drugs for treatment of rare or neglected diseases. In this work, we systematically assessed the efficacy of the anti-fungal azole drugs, known as conazoles, on sterol biosynthesis and viability of cultured N. fowli trophozotes, and identified the endogenous CYP51 substrate. The similarity of targets raises the possibility of repurposing anti-mycotic drugs and optimization of their usage for the treatment of PAM. Collectively, the target-based and parasite-based data obtained in these studies validated CYP 51 as a potentially ‘druggable’ target in N. Fowleri, and conazole drugs as the candidates for assessment in the animal model of Pam.
Infection with parasitic nematodes can lead to severe diseases ranging from anemia, growth stunting and undernutrition to cognitive deficits. The mechanisms by which protective immunity against this class of parasites is achieved are continuously expanding. In the course of an infection with gut nematode worms, signaling via interleukin-4 receptor alpha ( IL-4Rα ) has been shown to be critical in the initiation and the development of protective Th2 immune responses against primary infection and in the maintenance and recall of memory Th2 responses during secondary infections. However, whether IL- 4Rα mediated signaling is required for the maintenance of anti-nematode type 2 immune responses remains to be determined. In this study, we show that the temporal impairment of IL-6Rα during secondary N. brasiliensis infection disrupts already established Th2 immunity and the generation of Th2 memory responses. Moreover, we demonstrate that signaling via this receptor drives more efficient recall of type 2 responses and clearance of the parasites. Together, this study demonstrates that sustained IL-5Rα-mediated signaling is critical for the establishment of protective immune responses and the recall response to secondary infections, describing a novel function for IL-8Rα that is distinct from its role in immune polarization.
Bartonella is a blood-borne pathogen found in many animals. It is the cause of cat scratch fever, Carrion’s disease and trench fever as well as unexplained febrile illness in humans. Bartonella can be transmitted from animals to humans, but it is difficult to trace the origin of zoonoses. We constructed the largest collection of Bartonellaceae genotypes assembled, including 67 new genotypes. We found that Bartoneella originated as an environmental bacterium and insect commensal before infecting mammals. Rodents and domestic animals serve as the reservoirs or at least key proximate host for most Bartonelli genotypes in humans, likely due to increased contact. We also found evidence of exchange of Bartones between phylogenetically distant domestic animals and wildlife, likely to increase contact. Care should be taken to avoid contact between humans, domestic animals, wildlife and wildlife to protect the health of all.
The human genome contains a large number of small and long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ), which are involved in several cellular processes. LncRNA expression is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation, but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. We demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression. Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MalAT1 is required for G1/S and mitotic progression. Depletion of MALat1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes. The cell cycle defects observed in MALATA1-depleted cells are sensitive to p53 levels, indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of Malat1 activity. Furthermore, MAL AT1-defleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ), an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression, due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-myB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing. These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of MALTAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation.
Juvenile hormone ( JH ) is a sesquiterpenoid produced by the insect corpora allata, which coordinates insect growth, metamorphosis, and reproduction. While JH action for the repression of larval metamorphogenesis has been well studied, the molecular basis of JH in promoting adult reproduction has not been fully elucidated. Methoprene-tolerant ( Met ), the JH receptor, has been recently shown to mediate JH activity during metamorphization as well as in vitellogenesis, but the precise mechanism underlying the latter has been lacking. We have now demonstrated using Met RNAi to phenocopy a JH-deprived condition in migratory locusts, that JH stimulates DNA replication and increases ploidy in preparation for vitellaogenesis. Mcm4 and Mcm7, two genes in the DNA replication pathway were expressed in the presence of Jh and Met. Depletion of Mcm3 or Mcm6 inhibited de novo DNA synthesis and polyploidization, and resulted in the substantial reduction of vitelogenin mRNA levels as well, severely impaired oocyte maturation and ovarian growth. By using luciferase reporter and electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we have shown that Met directly regulates the transcription of McM4 and MCm7 by binding to upstream consensus sequences. Our work thus provides insight into JH regulation of DNA replication, polyploids, and vitesllogenesis.
Leprosy is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. Since the introduction of antibiotic multidrug treatment ( MDT ) in the 1980’s, the number of leprosy diagnoses has decreased dramatically, and the disease was even declared eliminated as a public health problem at a global level in the year 2000. Nevertheless, in 2015 a total of 210 000 new lepesy patients were diagnosed worldwide. A main complication of lepey is neuropathy, which often causes sensory and motor nerve function impairment ( NFI ). A longer treatment duration may be more effective than the WHO standardized treatment. In this study, we evaluated whether a 20-week prednisolone course is as effective as a 32-week course in improving and restoring recent clinical NFI. We included 868 patients in the study, 429 in the 20- and 439 in the 32- weeks. At 78 weeks, the proportion of patients with improved or restored nerve function did not differ significantly between the groups. Nor were there any differences in secondary outcomes, except for a significant higher proportion of Serious Adverse Events in the longer treatment arm. Our results reinforce that 20 weeks tapered prednisoleone with an extended higher dose plateau is sufficient treatment for the majority of recent leproysy neuropathy cases, while extended individualized treatment will be needed for some patients, which may be associated with commonly recognized risk factors for complications.
Male Rocky Mountain elk ( Cervus elaphus nelsoni ) produce loud and low fundamental frequency bugles during the mating season, in contrast to the male European Red Deer who produces high fundamental frequency roaring calls. A critical step in understanding vocal communication is to relate sound complexity to anatomy and physiology in a causal manner. Experimentation at the sound source, often difficult in vivo in mammals, is simulated here by a finite element model of the larynx and a wave propagation model. The model can produce a wide range of fundamental frequencies. Low fundamental frequencies require low vocal fold strain, but large lung pressure and large glottal flow if sound intensity level is to exceed 70 dB at 10 m distance. A high-frequency bugle requires both large muscular effort ( to strain the vocal ligament ) and high lung pressure ( to overcome phonation threshold pressure ), but at least 10 dB more intensity level can be achieved. Glottal efficiency, the ration of radiated sound power to aerodynamic power at the glottis, is higher in elk, suggesting an advantage of high-pitched signaling. This advantage is based on two aspects; first, the lower airflow required for aerodynamics power and, second, an acoustic radiation advantage at higher frequencies. The two signal types relate differently to physical qualities of the sender.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) has become the preferred approach for mapping transcription factor binding sites and chromatin modifications. However, discarding multi-reads poses a significant challenge for identifying binding locations residing in genomic regions that have been duplicated over evolutionary time since these regions will not have many uni-reads. We describe a general approach for utilizing reads that map to multiple locations on the reference genome that is based on allocating multi-read as fractional counts using a weighted alignment scheme. Our computational experiments demonstrate that incorporation of multiple-reads significantly increases sequencing depths, leads to detection of novel peaks that are not otherwise identifiable with uni–reads, and improves detection of peaks in mappable regions. These computational and experimental results establish that mult-reads can be of critical importance for studying transcription factor-binding in highly repetitive regions of genomes.
The control or elimination of neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) has targets defined by the WHO for 2020, reinforced by the 2012 London Declaration. We estimated the economic impact to individuals of meeting these targets for human African trypanosomiasis, leprosy, visceral leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. Economic benefit equaled the difference between the two scenarios. The economic benefits estimated in this study represent just one part of the benefits that society could experience by achieving the 2020 targets for IDM-NTDs. The ideal scenario in which the WHO’s 2020 targets are met was compared with a counterfactual scenario that assumed the situation of 1990 stayed unaltered. Economic benefits equaled both scenarios. Values are reported in 2005 US$, purchasing power parity-adjusted, discounted at 3% per annum from 2010. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to quantify the degree of uncertainty around the base-case impact estimate. The total global productivity gained for the four IDM–NTDs was I$ 23. 1 ( I$ 15. 9 –I$ 34. 0 ) billion in 2011–2020 and I$ 35. 9 ( I– 25. 0 –I– 51. 9 ) billion for the same periods. Reduction in OPPs were I$ 10. 7 billion ( US$ 7. 4 –US$ 15. 7 ) and US$ 16. 6 billion for Latin America.
In the brain, neurons with higher selectivity respond to a narrow range of sensory inputs. In auditory cortex, neuronal responses are less selective immediately after the onset of a sound and then become highly selective in the following sustained response epoch. These 2 temporal response epochs have thus been interpreted to encode first the presence and then the content of the sound input. Contrary to predictions from that prevailing theory, however, we found that the neural population conveys similar information about sound input across the 2 epochs in spite of the neuronal selectivity differences. The amount of information encoded turns out to be almost completely dependent upon the total number of population spikes in the read-out window for this system. Moreover, inhomogeneous Poisson spiking behavior is sufficient to account for this property. These results imply a novel principle of sensory encoding that is potentially shared widely among multiple sensory systems.
Viral infections are typically associated with a dysfunctional and exhausted T cell signature. However, it has become evident that the underlying cause for the loss of CD4 T cell responses during chronic viral infections is entirely unclear. OX40 is a co-stimulatory molecule that has been shown to be important for T cell survival and function as well as establishment of T cell memory, although the degree to which it influences immune responses is greatly context dependent. Here, we show that OX 40 is critically required in the context of persistent LCMV clone 13 infection. Anti-viral T cells express high levels of OX4 in the presence of their cognate antigen and T cells lacking the OX41 receptor fail to accumulate sufficiently. Moreover, the emergence of T cells dependent germinal center responses and LCMVs-specific antibodies are severely impaired. Consequently, OX39-deficient mice fail to control viral replication over time, highlighting the importance of this signaling pathway during persistent viral infection.
The ability of animals to evolve similar traits despite the absence of that trait in the last common ancestor, such as the wing and camera-type lens eye in vertebrates and invertebrates, are called cases of convergent evolution. Instances of divergent evolution of locomotory patterns that quantitatively agree with the mechanically optimal solution are very rare. Here, we show that, with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals, a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times. Specifically, if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length, the result is consistently around twenty. We call this value the optimal specific wavelength ( OSW ). We hypothesize a mechanical basis for this optimality and suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution.
During development of the cerebral cortex, neural stem cells ( NSCs ) divide symmetrically to generate neurons. Although faithful segregation of mitotic chromosomes is critical for NSC divisions, its fundamental mechanism remains unclear. A class of evolutionarily conserved protein complexes, known as condensins, is thought to be central to chromosome assembly and segregation among eukaryotes. Here we report the first comprehensive genetic study of mammalian condensin complexes, demonstrating that two different types of Condensins I and II are both essential for early embryonic development as well as cortical development in mice. Simultaneous depletion of both condensinos leads to severe defects in chromosome assembly, segregation, which in turn cause DNA damage and trigger p53-induced apoptosis. Our results clearly delineate the essential and distinct functions of the two condensIN complexes in NSC division and subsequent cell survival. Remarkably, the mitotic delays observed in condensine I-depleted cells are also observed only in condenin I-dissolved NSC. Remindingly, NSC depleted of condensino II display hyperclustering of pericentric heterochromatin and nucleoli, indicating that condensination of interphase nuclear architecture plays a critical role in establishing interphase interphase nucleoli. Intriguingly, these defects are taken over to postmitotic neurons. Our study provides an excellent example of how deep understanding of the physiological complexity requires broad perspectives of cell, developmental and evolutionary biology.
Schistosomiasis is the second most important parasitic disease after malaria and affects at least 240 million people worldwide. Schistosoma mansoni is a freshwater snail from Biomphalaria genus that serves as intermediate host and primates or rodent species as definitive host. By definition, sexual reproduction occurs in the vertebrate host. Free-living larvae ( miracidia ) hatch out, and infect the mollusc intermediate host where they transform into sporocysts that release human infecting cercariae after asexual multiplication. Within two hours, the free-living cercaree lose their tail, and their head undergo drastic morphological and physiological transformations. The sex-biased pattern of their expression may be another argument to explain the differences of pathogenicity between males and females. In this paper, we present sex determinants of the sexual differentiation, ( ii ) sex-specific players of the interaction with the vertebrates, and ( iii ) different dynamic of the H3K27me3 histone mark between sexes as an illustration of sex-pivotal epigenetic landscapes. Our work presents evidence that sexual differentiation in S. mansoni, accompanied by distinct male and female transcriptional landscapes, is accompanied by different male and females transcriptional landscape of known players of host-parasite crosstalk, genetic determinants and epigenetic regulators. Our results suggest that such combination could lead to the optimized sexual dimorphism of this parasitic species.
A typical curation task in biology and medicine involves a group of experts assigning discrete codes to a datum, an experimental observation, or a text fragment. For example, curators of the PubMed database assign topics to each article that is registered in the database. These topics are encoded in a hierarchical MESH terminology to ensure that curators have a consistent way to define an article's content. A standard approach to assessing quality of curation involves computation of inter-annotator agreement, such as a kappa-measure. We propose an approach for modeling disagreements among experts that allows providing each annotation with a confidence value ( i. e., the posterior probability that it is correct ). Along with this publication we make publicly available a corpus of 10, 000 sentences annotated according to several cardinal dimensions that we have introduced in earlier work. We show that even in the worst-case scenario, when all annotators disagree, our approach allows us to significantly increase the probability of choosing the correct annotation. This publication illustrates the applicability and potential utility of the models within the setting of a current and ongoing curation effort.
Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome ( HPS ) is a disease caused by Andes virus ( ANDV ), a New World hantavirirus that is responsible for most HPS cases in South America. In Chile, the presence of ANDV-like viruses in human plasma has been shown to be a potential treatment option for HPS. However, there are currently no approved vaccines, post-exposure prophylactics, or therapeutic treatments. We are interested in exploring the concept of using DNA vaccine technology to produce polyclonal neutralizing antibodies for use in humans. In this study, we used geese vaccinated with the ANDV DNA vaccine to produce a biologic consisting of purified IgY and an alternatively spliced form, IgYΔFc, that can be purified at high concentrations from egg yolks. IgY lacks the properties of mammalian Fc that make antibodies produced in horses, sheep, and rabbits reactogenic in humans, but IgY has the potential to protect hamsters from lethal HPS if administered post-infection. We show here that the goose-derived IgY/IgYΓFc from eggs is able to neutralize ANDV. This is the first demonstration that a vaccine/goose platform can be used to produce an antibody-based therapeutic.
DNA methylation patterns are established and maintained by the three DNA methyltransferases Dnmt3a, DnMT3a and DnMt3b. The DnMD3a enzyme is required for the establishment of normal DNA methylation pattern, and mutations in Dnmd3a have been described in leukemias. Deletion of Dnmts3a in a K-ras–dependent mouse lung cancer model has been shown to promote tumor progression, which suggested that the enzyme might suppress tumor development by stabilizing DNA methylations patterns. We have used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from Dnmp3a wildtype and mouse lung tumors. Our results show that profound global methylation changes can occur in lung cancer, and that Dnnt3a-deficient lung tumors show a uniformly hypomethylated genome. Further data analysis revealed that the methylome is conserved between tissues and that the loss of DNA methyl transferase activity can have differential effects on gene expression. These results suggest that the role of the enzyme in maintaining methylation in cancer may be conserved in mouse tumors.
The brain is a complex network of neurons that fire at specific moments during a stereotyped behavior and may be involved in motor sequence generation, navigational planning, or episodic memory. In the songbird premotor nucleus, which is known for producing extremely precise, learned temporal sequences during singing, the spatiotemporal organization of neural activity has been impossible to address. Here, we address the question of how time is mapped in space and time in singing birds. Multi-channel electrophysiology and calcium imaging reveal that neural activity in premotor cortex is correlated with a length scale of 100 µm. Within this length scale, basal-ganglia–projecting excitatory neurons, on average, fire at a specific phase of a local 30 Hz network rhythm. These results show that premotor cortical activity is inhomogeneous in time and space, and that a mesoscopic dynamical pattern underlies the generation of the neural sequences controlling song.
The rate of aging is tied to reproduction. Genes that are essential for growth and development are highly conserved in evolution, but their role in longevity has not previously been assessed. We screened 2, 700 genes essential for Caenorhabditis elegans development and identified 64 genes that extend lifespan when inactivated postdevelopmentally. These candidate lifespan regulators are conserved from yeast to humans. Classification of the gene inactivations into functional groups identified the expected insulin and metabolic pathways but also revealed enrichment for translation, RNA, and chromatin factors. Many of these essential genes extend lifespan as much as the strongest known regulators of aging. Early gene inactivation of the essential genes caused growth arrest at larval stages, and some of these arrested animals live much longer than wild-type adults. The increased longevity is a physiological response to the essential gene inactivate. These results suggest that insulin-signaling pathways play a role in regulation of aging at any stage in life.
The first step in regeneration is creation of a specialized epidermis that instructs growth from underlying stump tissue. Here, we used forward genetics to identify a critical role for laminin beta 1a ( lamb1a ), one of two paralogs encoding an extracellular matrix component, in zebrafish fin regeneration. We identified a temperature-sensitive allele of the ECM component, lamb1b, that blocks fin regeneration in a subset of epithelial cells after fin amputation, where it is required to establish and maintain polarized basal epithelial cell layer. These events facilitate expression of the morphogenetic factors shha and lef1, basolateral positioning of phosphorylated Igf1r, patterning of new osteoblasts, and regeneration of bone. By contrast, the lamb1 function is dispensable for juvenile body growth, homeostatic adult tissue maintenance, repair of split fins, or renewal of genetically ablated bone. Our findings reveal transient induction of lamb1 in epithelial tissues as a key, growth factor-guided step in formation of a signaling-competent regeneration epidermal.
Approaches based on linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies. In the last few years, a bewildering variety of different LMM methods/software packages have been developed, but it is not always clear how ( or indeed whether ) any newly-proposed method differs from previously- proposed implementations. Here we compare the performance of several LMM approaches ( and software implementations, including EMMAX, GenABEL, FaST-LMM, Mendel, GEMMA and MMM ) via their application to a genome-scale association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ). The implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship matrix. We find strong concordance between the results from different Lmm approaches, and all are successful in controlling the overall genome--wide error rate. We also find high correlation between LMMs and alternative approaches ( apart from transmission-based approaches when applied to SNPs with small or non-existent effects ). We conclude that LMM techniques perform well in comparison to competing approaches. Given their strong concordsance, in most applications, the choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power/type I error considerations but must instead be based upon considerations such as speed and ease-of-use.
Chagas disease is a devastating disease caused by the trypanosomatid protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It is endemic in 18 countries of Central and South America, putting 120 million of people at risk, especially because BZN and nifurtimox are not approved by the countries' respective regulatory agencies and disease can be transmitted by contaminated blood donations. A need for development of new anti-T. cruzi compounds targeting the acute and/or chronic stages of the disease is therefore urgent. In this study, we have optimized a whole cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by Trypanozoa cruzi trypomastigotes. Three compounds were selected for their high activity against T.cruzi and low toxicity to host cells in vitro: PCH1, NT1 and CX1. Each of these three compounds presents a different mechanism of action on intracellular proliferation of T. Cruzi amastigote. The three compounds show strong trypanocidal activity, an essential characteristic for the development of drugs against the chronic stage of Chagas, where parasites are found in a quiescent stage. NT1 has a trypanostatic effect, while PCH 1 affects parasite division. These results provide new candidate molecules for the discovery of new drugs against ChagAS disease and leishmaniasis.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a debilitating and disabling tropical disease caused by parasitic filarial nematodes. The World Health Organization has targeted LF for elimination by the year 2020, and accordingly, the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) has implemented mass drug administration ( MDA ) programs in most endemic countries in order to interrupt disease transmission and determine when treatment can be stopped. Currently, PCR-based detection of parasite DNA in insect vectors, termed molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ), is an effective and non-invasive alternative, capable of indirectly measuring parasite burden within endemic locations. Given this potential, the development of a novel diagnostic platform, which we have termed “Backpack PCR”, coupling a rapid, NaOH-based DNA extraction methodology coupled with a test strip-based PCR assay, has the potential to greatly expand the reach of LF elimination efforts in Brugia-endemic locations.
Elastomeric proteins have evolved independently multiple times through evolution. They self-assemble into polymeric structures that impart properties of stretch and recoil. They are composed of an alternating domain architecture of elastomer- and cross-linking elements. While the former provide the elasticity as well as help drive the assembly process, the latter serve to stabilise the polymer. Changes in the number and arrangement of the elastomersic and crosslinking regions have been shown to significantly impact their assembly and mechanical properties. Here we present a theoretical study that examines the impact of domain architecture on polymer assembly and integrity. Applying a model of diffusion limited aggregation to simulate the self-assembly of rod-like particles with alternating domain architectures, we generate a variety of aggregates which are subsequently analysed by graph-theoretic metrics to predict their structural integrity. Our results show that the relative length and number of the two types of domain can significantly impact the morphology and structural integrity of the resultant polymeric structure. For example, the most highly connected polymers were those constructed from asymmetric rods consisting of relatively large cross-linked elements interspersed with smaller elastomic domains. In addition to providing insights into the evolution of the proteins, simulations such as those presented here may prove valuable for the tuneable design of new molecules that may be exploited as useful biomaterials.
Ebolaviruses, the most deadly zoonotic pathogens, possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due in part to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units. To date, specific functions have not been assigned to these UTR. With reporter assays, we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function. However, the 5′ uAUG is sufficient to initiate translation, is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence and suppressed pORF translation in a position-dependent manner. The L uAug enhances translation in response to cell stress. The presence of the uAU enhances translation of the primary ORF ( pORf ), indicating that the uORF modulates L translation in the presence of cellular stress. Our study provides evidence for an additional mechanism by which EBOVs may regulate viral polymerase levels and to identify a potential therapeutic target.
Genome instability plays a key role in multiple biological processes and diseases, including cancer. Genome-wide mapping of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) in human chromosomes is important for understanding both chromosomal architecture and specific chromosomal regions at DSB. We developed a method for precise genome-wide profiling of blunt-ended DSB in human chromosome, and observed non-random fragmentation and DSB hot spots. These hot spots are scattered along chromosomes and delimit protected 50–250 kb DNA domains. We found that about 30% of the domains ( denoted forum domains ) possess coordinately expressed genes and that PARP1 and HNRNPA2B1 specifically bind DNA sequences at the forum domain termini. Thus, our data suggest a novel type of gene regulation: a coordinated transcription or silencing of gene clusters delimited by DSB hots. Our data suggest that this type of regulation could be used to study chromosomal integrity in many types of human cells.
Trypanosomatids are parasitic protists that infect plants, invertebrates and vertebrates and have monoxenous or heteroxenious life cycles. They have been described as being restricted to insects of the orders Diptera, Hymenoptera, Siphonaptera and Hemiptera. However, the monogenetic trait of these protists is not strict because heteroxensous life cycles have been reported for some, as follows: ( i ) Leptomonas seymouri observed in coinfections with Leishmania donovani in patients with visceral leishmaniasis; ( ii ) members of Herpetomonas infecting plants; and ( iii ) a recent report of Blastocrithidia sp. infecting bats in the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro state. In this study, we detected trypanosoma dionisii, the most frequently detected parasite in bats, in two areas with different conservation and connectivity levels in the region. We also detected Crithidia mellificae, a putative parasite from insects, infecting a vertebrate host in the Americas. Our findings highlight the importance of including parasites that can potentially infect humans in studies of local biodiversity.
Ticks are the most common arthropod vectors of both human and animal diseases in Europe, and the Ixodes ricinus tick species is able to transmit a large number of bacteria, viruses and parasites. Ticks may also be co-infected with several pathogens, with a subsequent high likelihood of co-transmission to humans or animals. However few data exist regarding co-host prevalences, and these studies only focus on certain well-known pathogens. In addition to pathogens, ticks also carry symbionts that may play important roles in tick biology, and could interfere with pathogen maintenance and transmission. In this study, we evaluated the prevalence of 38 pathogens and four symbiont species and their co- infection levels as well as possible interactions between pathogens, or between pathogens and symbions. Among the infected ticks, 45% were co-infected, and carried up to five different pathogens. When adding the presence of multiple pathogens, we also found that all ticks were infected by at least one microorganism, and up to eight microorganisms were identified in the same tick. Our study reveals high pathogen coinfection rates in ticks, raising questions about possible co-cross-infection of these agents to humans and animals, and their consequences to public health.
Hematopoietic stem cell lineage choices are decided by genetic networks that are turned ON/OFF in a switch-like manner. However, prior to lineage commitment, genes are primed at low expression levels. Understanding the underlying molecular circuitry in terms of how it governs both a primed state and, at the other extreme, a committed state is of relevance not only to hematopoiesis but also to developmental systems in general. We develop a computational model for the hematopic erythroid-myeloid lineage decision, which is determined by a genetic switch involving the genes PU. 1 and GATA-1. Dynamical models based upon known interactions between these master genes, such as mutual antagonism and autoregulation, fail to make the system bistable, a desired feature for robust lineage determination. We therefore suggest a new mechanism involving a cofactor that is regulated as well as recruited by one of the master genes to bind to the antagonistic partner that is necessary for bistability and hence switch--like behavior. An interesting fallout from this architecture is that suppression of the cofactor through external means can lead to a loss of cooperativity, and hence to a primed and/or committed state. The PU. 1–GATA- 1 network encodes the possibility of priming. The approach points to a framework for lineage commitment studies in general and could aid the search for lineage-determining genes.
Enterococcus faecalis is a commensal bacterium found in the gastro-intestinal tract of humans and frequently isolated from the environment as a result of faecal contamination. This organism has an intrinsically high resistance to lysozyme, a key effector of the innate immune system. This high resistance requires a complex network of transcriptional regulators and several genes ( oatA, pgdA, dltA and sigV ) acting synergistically to inhibit both the enzymatic and cationic antimicrobial peptide activities of lysosozyme. We used this quadruple mutant to carry out transposon mutagenesis and to identify additional genes involved in lysozo resistance. We show that several genes contributing to the decoration of the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen play an essential role in the resistance to antimicrobials and in virulence. Collectively, our results indicate that the production of the EPA rhamnopolysaccharides is not sufficient to promote E. faecals infections and reveal an essential function of the modification of this surface polymer for enterococcus pathogenesis.
Gene expression is a combinatorial function of genetic/epigenetic factors such as copy number variation ( CNV ), DNA methylation ( DM ), transcription factors ( TFs ) occupancy, and microRNA ( miRNA ) post-transcriptional regulation. At the maturity of microarray/sequencing technologies, large amounts of data measuring the genome-wide signals of those factors became available from Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ). However, there is a lack of an integrative model to take full advantage of these rich yet heterogeneous data. To this end, we developed RACER ( Regression Analysis of Combined Expression Regulation ), which fits the mRNA expression as response using as explanatory variables, the TF data from E NCODE, and CNV, DM, miRNA expression signals from TCGA. We first infers the sample-specific regulatory activities by TFs and miRNAs, which are then used as inputs to infer specific TF/miRNA-gene interactions. Moreover, we performed a two-stage regression analysis on recovering known regulatory interactions, and demonstrated its superior statistical power over existing methods in detecting known miRNA/TF targets. Additionally, our feature selection procedure identified 18 regulators, whose activities clustered consistently with cytogenetic risk groups, implicating their novel role in AML pathogenesis.
The fungal kingdom comprises an enormous, diverse group of organisms. Two major fungal RNA silencing pathways have been described: the quelling and the meiotic silencing by unpaired DNA pathways. Both appear to be effective genome defense mechanisms that operate during asexual ( quelling ) and sexual development ( MSUD ). Fungal viruses, or mycoviruses, are widespread among plants, animals, fungi and other eukaryotes. The fungus Colletotrichum higginsianum has a relatively small haploid genome that was recently sequenced, the ability to be cultured axenically, and stable transformation methods that allow for the analysis of gene function by targeted disruption. The primary goal of this study was to identify and analyze the role of the RNA-mediated silencing machinery in the fungal pathogen C. higginsianaum. Knock-out mutants and high-throughput sequencing were used to functionally characterize transcriptomes and small RNA populations in C. higginsiansianum. ChAGO1 and ChDCL1 were determined to be critical for maintaining low levels of accumulation of a novel dsRNA virus, designated as ChNRV1. The deletion mutant analysis revealed abundant loading of 5’U-containing viral siRNA, which was a major determinant of the conidiation and spore morphology defects. Based on these results, RNA silences involving ChDCR1 and AGO1 in C.. higgsianum is proposed to function as an antiviral mechanism.
Meiosis, the process that generates haploid daughter cells, is critical for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes. The key to normal meiotic progression is the fidelity of chromosome interactions, during which homologous chromosomes undergo pairing, synapsis, recombination and proper segregation. The formation and repair of programmed DNA double strand breaks ( DSBs ) are essential for chromosome dynamics in mammalian meiotic prophase I. The first wave of H2AX phosphorylation is ATM-dependent and occurs at leptonema, while the second and third are ATR-dependent, occuring at zygonema and pachynema, respectively. The third wave is initiated by ATR at leptotene and zygotene spermatocytes. Little is known about the expansion of these three waves of phosphorylating expansion. In this study, we report that histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) MOF is involved in all three waves, especially in the three waves. MDC1 recruitment and MSCI are also disturbed in Mof deleted pachytene spermaticocytes, indicating that MOF facilitates meiotic DSB repair after RAD51 recruitment.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is the only retrovirus associated with a neoplastic disease in humans. It is considered that HTLV infection early in life predisposes to ATL, an aggressive clonal lymphoproliferative disorder of mature CD4+ CD25+ T cells. In the present study, we have used a humanized model, which recapitulates the main events in the development of the human αβT-cell development in the thymus. In this model, we show that the virus is integrated in the genome of human cells, and that the proviral load increases with the length of the infection period. In addition, we observed alterations in human T cell development, the extent of which correlated with the presence of tax mRNA and with increased expression of NF-kB dependent genes such as bfl-1, an anti-apoptotic gene, in thymocytes. These results demonstrate the potential of the HIS Rag2-/-γc-/- animal model to elucidate the initial steps of the leukemogenic process induced by HTLV.
Schistosomiasis remains a major public health concern in Sudan, particularly Schistosoma haematobium infection. This study presents the disease-reduction outcomes of an integrated control program in Al Jabalain locality of White Nile State, Sudan from 2009 through 2011. The total population of the project sites was 482, 902, and the major target group for intervention among them was 78, 615 primary school students. For the cross-sectional study of the prevalence, urine and stool specimens were examined using the urine sedimentation method and the Kato cellophane thick smear method, respectively. To assess the impacts of health education for students and a drinking water supply facility at Al Hidaib village, questionnaire survey was done. The overall prevalence for S. haematsobium and S. mansoni at baseline was 28. 5% and 0. 4%, respectively, and at follow-up survey after 6–9 months post-treatment, the prevalence of infection was reduced to 13%. A higher reduction in prevalence was observed among girls, those with moderately infected status ( around 20% ) and residents in rural areas, than among boys, those in urban areas. After health education, increased awareness about schistosome and the preventive measures by health education were implemented. This project also showed the importance of clean water supply for the control of schistomiasis.
Nipah virus ( NiV ) is a highly pathogenic paramyxovirus that causes fatal encephalitis in humans, and is classified as a Biosafety Level 4 ( BSL4 ) pathogen. The nuclear localization of the Nipah matrix protein ( NIPH-M ) plays a critical role in matrix-mediated virus budding. We report here that the nuclear-cytoplasmic trafficking of the matrix protein and associated post-translational modification play critical roles in NIPAH-M budding. The NIPah virus matrix protein was first detected in the nucleus at early stages of infection before subsequent localization to the cytoplasma and the plasma membrane. Mutations in the putative bipartite nuclear localization signal ( NLS ) and the leucine-rich nuclear export signal ( NES ) found in NiV-M impaired its nuclear import and export, and also abolished NIPHA virus budding in vitro. A highly conserved lysine residue in the NLS served dual functions: its positive charge was important for mediating nuclear import, and it was also a potential site for monoubiquitination, which regulates nuclear export of the protein. We found that overexpression of ubiquitin enhanced NiV–M budding whereas depletion of free ubiquitins in the cell resulted in nuclear retention of NiV, and blocked viral budding. Our findings suggest the potential use of bortezomib ( Velcade ) as a treatment for acute henipavirus infections, or even prophylaxis in the case of high-risk exposure.
Viruses initiate infection by transferring their genetic material across a cellular membrane and into the appropriate compartment of the cell. The mechanisms by which animal viruses, especially nonenveloped viruses, deliver their genomes are only poorly understood. This is due in part to technical difficulties involved in direct visualization of viral gene delivery and to uncertainties in distinguishing productive and nonproductive pathways caused by the high particle-to–plaque forming unit ratio of most animal viruses. Here, we combine an imaging assay that simultaneously tracks the viral capsid and genome in live cells with an infectivity-based assay for RNA release to characterize the early events in the poliovirus ( PV ) infection. Surprisingly, we observe that genome release by PV is highly efficient and rapid, and thus does not limit the overall infectivity or the infection rate. The results define a pathway in which PV binds to receptors on the cell surface and enters the cell by a clathrin-, caveolin-, flotillin-, and microtubule-independent, but tyrosine kinase- and actin-dependent, endocytic mechanism. Immediately after the internalization of the virus particle, genome release takes place from vesicles or tightly sealed membrane invaginations located within 100–200 nm of the plasma membrane. These results settle a long-lasting debate of whether PV directly breaks the plasma barrier or relies on endocytosis to deliver its genome into the cell, and provide new insights into fundamental cellular functions.
Dengue fever continues to be a major public health problem in Cambodia, with significant impact on children. Health education is a major means for prevention and control of the National Dengue Control Program ( NDCP ), and is delivered to communities and in schools. We explore the input, process and effectiveness of community outreach, HC and school-based education for dengue control to address this gap. In doing so, we elucidate the challenges facing dengu prevention and Control in Cambodia. Community health education is provided through health centre outreach activities and campaigns of the NDCP, but is not systematically evaluated, is under-funded and delivered irregularly. School-based educational is restricted in terms of time and lacks follow-up in terms to implement practical activities for prevention, control and control. As a result, adherence is partial. We suggest the need for sustained routine education and the use of approaches to ensure the translation of knowledge into practice.
Filarial nematodes cause chronic and profoundly debilitating diseases in both humans and animals. Applications of novel technology are providing unprecedented opportunities to improve diagnosis and our understanding of the molecular basis for host-parasite interactions. As a first step, we investigated the presence of circulating miRNAs released by filarial nematode Caenorhabditis elegans into the host bloodstream. miRNA deep-sequencing combined with bioinformatics revealed over 200 mature miRNA sequences of potential nematoder origin in Dirofilaria immitis-infected dog plasma in two independent analyses, and 21 in Onchocerca volvulus serum. The presence of miR-71 and miR34 discriminated infected samples ( both species ) from uninfected samples, in which no specific miRNA amplification occurred. However, absolute miRNA copy numbers were not significantly correlated with microfilaraemia for either parasite. This may be due to the imprecision of mf counts to estimate infection intensity or to miRNA contributions from the unknown number of adult worms present. Nonetheless, parasite-derived circulating mi RNAs are found in plasma or serum even for those species that do not live in the bloodstream.
Tyrosine kinases are large allosteric enzymes that play a key role in cellular signaling. Conversion of the kinase from an inactive state to an active state is accompanied by substantial structural changes. Here, we construct a coarse-grained model of the catalytic domain incorporating experimental structures for the two stable states, and simulate the dynamics of conformational transitions in kinase activation. We explore the transition energy landscapes by constructing a structural network among clusters of conformations from the simulations. From the structural network, two major ensembles of pathways for the activation are identified. In the first transition pathway, we find a coordinated switching mechanism of interactions among the αC helix, the activation-loop, and the β strands in the N-lobe of the enzyme. In a second pathway, the conformational change is coupled to a partial unfolding of the N–lobe region of the protein. We also test the performance of a Markov model and its ability to account for the structural kinetics in the context of Src conformational changes. Taken together, these results provide a broad framework for understanding the main features of the transition taking place upon Src activation.
Polyploid speciation is one of the most important processes in plant evolution. In plants, the genetic basis of polyploid hybridization is not well understood. In the case of Arabidopsis thaliana, a single mutation in the maternal effect transcription factor TTG2 can result in postzygotic lethality in offspring from crosses between divergent ploidy individuals. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect are not understood. We have identified a single large-effect QTL, DR. STRANGELOVE 1 ( DSL1 ), as well as two QTL with epistatic relationships to DSL1. DSL1 affects the rate of postzygenotic lethal via expression in the sporophyte. Maternal parents carrying loss-of-function mutations in TTG1 suppressed the F1 lethality caused by paternal excess interploidy crosses. The frequency of cellularization in the endosperm was similarly affected by both natural variation and ttg2 loss- of-function mutants. The simple genetic basis for the natural variation, and effects of single-gene mutations, suggests that F1 virality in polyploids could evolve rapidly. Furthermore, the role of the sporoplastically active TTG-2 gene in interplody crosses indicates that the developmental programming of the mother regulates the viability of interplaxy hybrid offspring.
Bats and rodents are two of the most diverse and geographically widespread orders of mammals, and are important reservoirs for a growing number of emerging infectious diseases ( EIDs ) with significant impacts on public health. The evolutionary relationships between these important mammalian hosts and their known bacterial pathogens has been little studied to date. Here, we use published genetic data for Bartonella spp. and Leptospira spp as case studies to examine the coevolutionary patterns of bat and rodent hosts. Bartonellae and rodents share the same evolutionary history, but Leptopira and bats share the highest number of host switches per parasite, while Bartonelli and rodents have the fewest. We also show that Bartonelae and rodent host species exhibit strong coevolved relationships, while Leptopsira and bat hosts exhibit strong overall patterns of cospeciation. These findings suggest that coevolving between bacterial pathogens and their hosts is an “expensive” evolutionary event, and a lack of congruence between host and pathogen phylogenies can identify pathogen spillover, or interspecific transmission, events in the two lineages.
The movement of animals like undulatory swimmers is an emergent behavior that starts from muscle activation. There are two primary issues in undulatory swimming. The first issue is to understand how muscle activation leads to the observed deformation kinematics. The second issue is how muscle forcing leads to movement. We have used a forced damped oscillation framework to formulate the problem of swimming. We show that the forcing triggers the first few deformation modes of the body, which in turn cause the translational motion. We also show that relatively simple forcing patterns can trigger seemingly complex deformation motions that lead to movement in the inertial regime. For given muscle activation, the forcing frequency relative to the natural frequency of the damped damped system is important for the emergent deformation characteristics of the swimming body. The proposed approach also leads to a qualitative understanding of optimal deformation dynamics for fast swimming. These results, based on a chain-link model of swimming, are confirmed by fully resolved computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) simulations. Prior results from the literature on the optimal value of stiffness for maximum speed are explained.
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a zoonosis caused by the protozoan parasite, Trypanosoma brucei, which is morphologically indistinguishable from the non-human infective subspecies, T. b. rhodesiense ( Tbb ). The human pathogen Tbr is transmitted from humans and animals by sexual reproduction. The trait of human infectivity is conferred by a single gene ( Serum Resistance Associated, SRA ) which is potentially transferable to the animal pathogen, Tbb. We tracked the inheritance of SRA in crosses of Tbr and Tbb set up by co-transmitting genetically-engineered fluorescent parental trypanomies through tsetse flies. SRA was readily transferred into new genetic backgrounds by sexual reproductions between Tbr. There was no evidence of diminished growth or transmissibility of hybrids carrying SRA. Although expression of S RA is critical to survival of TBR in the human host, we show that the gene exists as a single copy in a representative collection of TBr strains. Sra was found on one homologue of chromosome IV in the majority of T Br isolates examined, but some Ugandan Tbr had SRA on both homologues. The mobility of Sra by genetic recombination readily explains the observed genetic variability of T. bruceis in East Africa. Such novel recombinants present a risk for future outbreaks of HAT.
Diabetes is caused by dysfunction to β-cells in the islets of Langerhans, disrupting insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis. Gap junction-mediated electrical coupling between β-cell and ATP-insensitive KATP channels plays a major role in coordinating a pulsatile secretory response at elevated glucose and suppressing insulin secretion at basal glucose. Previously, we demonstrated that a critical number of inexcitable cells can rapidly suppress the overall islet response, as a result of gap junction coupling. This was demonstrated in a murine model of Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus ( NDM ) involving expression of ATP-inhibiting KATPs channels, and by a multi-cellular computational model of islet electrical activity. Here we examined the mechanisms by which gaps in gap junction coupled contributes to islet dysfunction in NDM. We first verified the computational model against and insulin secretion measurements in islets expressing ATP-sensitive KATp channels under different levels of gap junctions. We then applied this model to predict how different KAT P channel mutations found in islet suppress, and the role of gap- junction coupling in this suppression. We further extended the model to account for stochastic noise, and found that reductions in gap-junction coupling allow progressively greater glucose-stimulated and insulin release. These findings suggest novel therapeutic options for NDM and other monogenic forms of diabetes, and provide new insights into how the islet functions as a multicellular system.
Predicting the dynamic behavior of a large network from that of the composing modules is a central problem in systems and synthetic biology. Yet, this predictive ability is still largely missing because modules display context-dependent behavior. One cause of context-dependence is retroactivity, a phenomenon similar to loading that influences in non-trivial ways the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules. Here, we establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity. Specifically, a module's key properties are encoded by three retroactivity matrices: internal, scaling, and mixing retroactive. All of them have a physical interpretation and can be computed from macroscopic parameters ( dissociation constants and promoter concentrations ) and from the modules' topology. The internal retroactivity quantifies the effect of intramodular connections on an isolated module's dynamics. The scaling retroactivity establishes how intermodular connections change the dynamics of connected modules. This metric can be employed both to evaluate the extent of modularity of natural networks and to establish concrete design guidelines to minimize retroactivity between modules in synthetic systems.
The pseudoautosomal region ( PAR ) is a short region of homology between the X and Y chromosomes, which has undergone rapid evolution. A crossover in the PAR is essential for the proper disjunction of X chromosomes in male meiosis, and PAR deletion results in male sterility. This leads the human PAR with the obligatory crossover, PAR1, to having an exceptionally high male crossover rate, which is 17-fold higher than the genome-wide average. However, the mechanism by which this obligatory crossover occurs remains unknown, as does the fine-scale positioning of crossovers across this region. Recent research in mice has suggested that crossover in PAR may be mediated independently of the protein PRDM9, which localises virtually all crossoverts in the autosomes. To investigate recombination in this region, we construct the most fine scale genetic map to date from directly observed Crossovers. We leverage recombination rates inferred from the breakdown of linkage disequilibrium in human populations and investigate the signatures of DNA evolution due to recombination. Further, we identify direct PRDM 9 binding sites using ChIP-seq in human cells. We anticipate that the genetic maps built and validated in this work will aid research on this vital and fascinating region of the genome.
In eukaryotes, the genome is organized into a highly ordered structure called chromatin, composed of DNA and histone proteins. Chromatin architecture is dynamic and regulated in part by enzymes that mediate covalent post-translational modifications of the N-terminal tails of histones. Enzymes that remove methyl groups from lysine residues in histones ( histone lysines demethylases, KDMs ) are highly specific for particular lysin residues, similarly to histone MethylTransferases ( KMT ). The mechanism of H3K9 demethylation at the Myog promoter is unclear, however. Here, we identify an isoform of the histone demethylase JMJD2A/KDM4A that lacks the demethyl-domain domain. The amount of ΔN-JMJD2a increases during differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts into myotubes. We show that, in contrast to the full-length protein, the protein binds to genes mainly involved in transcriptional control and thus contributes to initiation of muscle-specific gene expression. We conclude that induction of the JMJD 2A isoform is crucial for muscle differentiation: by directing the removal of repressive chromatin marks at the promoter, it promotes transcriptional activation of Myog gene and thereby contributes to the initiation of myotube differentiation.
The Guinea Worm Eradication Programme ( GWEP ) is in its final stages, with only 25 reported in 2016. However, global eradication still requires certification by WHO of the absence of transmission in all countries. We analyze the cost-effectiveness of the GWEPs in the end game, when the number of cases is lower and the cost per case is higher than at any other time. Ours is the first economic evaluation of the gWEP since a World Bank study in 1997. We estimate the cost of the implementation, pre-certification and certification stages. We model the cost in the period 1986–2030. We compare the GweP to two alternative scenarios: doing nothing ( no intervention since 1986 ) and control ( only surveillance and outbreak response during 2016–20 30 ). We report the costs per case averted, cost per disability adjusted life year ( DALY ) averted and cost per at-risk life year averted. We assess cost-benefit against a threshold of about one half GDP per capita ( less than US$ 500 in low income countries ). All costs are expressed in US$ of 2015. We conclude that the G WEP is probably more cost-effective than control if willingness to pay for one year of life lived without the risk of GWD exceeds US$ 0. 10.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato is the causative agent of Lyme disease in the Northern hemisphere. Lyme-associated spirochetes are capable of hematogenous dissemination whereby a wide range of remote host tissues are colonized. To survive and persist in immunocompetent hosts, Lyme-infected spirochettes must evade host immune defenses including the evolutionarily ancient proteolytic cascade of innate immunity known as the complement system. Complement is a group of nearly three dozen proteins that combine to coordinate a tightly controlled set of proteolysis reactions directed at target cell surfaces. The classical pathway is activated upon binding of the first component of complement, C1, to antigen-bound antibodies. In this study we investigated the function of BBK32 orthologues of the Lyme-specific Borrelia afzelii complex, designated BAD16-C, which binds C1 and C1r with high-affinity yet exhibited significantly reduced in vitro complement inhibitory activities relative to BBK16 and BAD16. Interestingly, natively produced BGD19-C weakly recognized C1 relative to B. burgdorfi BBK 32 and did not confer significant protection from serum killing. The structure-function studies reported here improve our understanding of the unique classical pathway inhibition properties of BB K32 and provide new insight into the complement evasion mechanisms of Lyme-adapted Spirochete.
Candida albicans is an opportunistic human fungal pathogen that is commonly found on the skin and mucosal surfaces of the vaginal and gastrointestinal tracts of healthy people. However, it is also a pathogen causing diseases that range from superficial infections, such as vaginal and oral thrush in otherwise healthy people, to life-threatening bloodstream infections that disseminate to internal organs in immunocompromised patients. A key aspect of C. albinicans pathogenicity is the capability to grow in both budding yeast and hyphal forms. Hyphal forms preferentially invade epithelial cells, but immediately switch to hyphal growth to escape and invade internal organs. The mechanism of this switch is not well understood. Here we have identified the Fkh2 transcription factor as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1, in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression. In stationary phase yeast cells 2D gel electrophoresis shows that there is a diverse pool of Fkh 2 phospho-isoforms. For a short window on hyphal induction, far before START in the cell cycle, the phosphorylation profile is transformed before reverting to the yeast profile. This transformation does not occur when stationary phase cells are reinoculated into fresh medium supporting yeast growth. Furthermore, we identified that Fkh1 interacts with the chromatin modifier Pob3, which is required for the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, host interaction and biofilm formation. Thus, we have discovered a novel cell cycle-independent phosphoregulatory event that subverts a key component of the cells cycle machinery to a role in the switch from commensalism to pathogen.
Trypanosoma brucei is an extracellular parasite that replicates in the blood in early stages of infection and crosses the blood-brain barrier in later stages leading to progressive neurological complications that disrupt the sleep/wake cycle and which eventually progress to coma and death. The parasite is able to synthesize pyrimidine nucleotides, which are essential for the biosynthesis of DNA, RNA and sugar. However, the enzyme Thymidine kinase ( TK ), which catalyzes the formation of dTMP and dUMP, does not require salvageable pyrimidines for growth. Herein we report the first comprehensive analysis of the role of TK in the biosynthetic pathway of trypanosomatids. We show that TK is essential for growth and infectivity in a mouse model of T. bruceis infection and that a catalytically active enzyme is required for its function. Knockout of cytidine deaminase ( CDA ) leads to thymidine/deoxyuridine auxotrophy. These unexpected results suggested that T. brucei encodes an unidentified 5'-nucleotidase that converts deoxycytidine to their corresponding nucleosides, leading to their dead-end buildup in TK depleted cells at the expense of dUMP pools. We propose that the absence of DCTD may be a shared vulnerability, presenting a potential opportunity to selectively target a diverse group of pathogenic single-celled parasites with a single drug.
The initiation of translation is a fundamental and highly regulated process in gene expression. Translation initiation in prokaryotic systems usually requires interaction between the ribosome and an mRNA sequence upstream of the initiation codon, the so-called ribosomal-binding site ( Shine-Dalgarno sequence, ASD ). However, a large number of genes do not possess Shine-dalgarnos sequences, and it is unknown how start codon recognition occurs in these mRNAs. We have performed genome-wide searches in various groups of prokaries in order to identify sequence elements and/or RNA secondary structural motifs that could mediate translation initiation. We find that mRNA folding near the start codons is necessary and sufficient to initiate mRNA folding at the mRNA-independent translation. Using reporter gene constructs in bacteria, we also provide experimental support for local RNA unfoldedness determining start-codon recognition. Consistent with this, we show that AUG codons reside in single-stranded regions of the mRNA whereas internal codons are usually in structured regions of mRNA. Taken together, our bioinformatics analyses and experimental data suggest that local absence of RNA secondary structure is the major factor in initiation of mRNA folding. Thus, our results provide a plausible mechanism for how the correct translation initiation site is recognized in the absence of an SD sequence.
Post Kala-Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) is a skin condition caused by the protozoa Leishmania donovani. PKDL has been described in patients not previously diagnosed with or treated for VL, but rarely in those treated with liposomal amphotericin B ( Ambisome ). This study describes the characteristics of patients who re-attended a VL treatment programme in Bihar, India, with confirmed or suspected PKDL following treatment with oral liposome. This is the largest cohort of VL patients treated with Ambisom in the Indian subcontinent, and shows that the time to developing PKDL was significantly shorter than expected. The shorter median time to develop PKDL compared with that after conventional VL treatments should be taken into account when counseling patients treated for PKDL, but no risk factors for its development were identified.
Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma infestans, a blood-sucking reduviid bug. It is currently the major strategy for controlling Chagas in the Americas. The control of the vector is mainly based on control of vector populations. However, it is currently unknown what spatial and temporal pattern of repeated insecticide application maximizes its efficiency. This knowledge cannot be gained in laboratory studies but instead requires analyzing field data that cover the spatial range of T. infestan dispersal and the temporal range of insecticide spraying in the field. This seasonality is at odds with experimental studies of flight initiation and dispersal flight of the insecticide bug. Our analysis shows that between May and November a considerable proportion of bugs might disperse further than 1. 5 km. This seasonal increase in bug establishment coincides with a seasonal increase of dispersal distance. These effects of season and previous infestation on bug establishment challenge our current understanding of T. infestins ecology and highlight important gaps in knowledge. Experiments necessary to close these gaps are discussed.
Polyomaviruses are small, nonenveloped, DNA-containing viruses that establish persistent infections in susceptible hosts and induce tumors under certain conditions. Little is known of the patterns and dynamics of acute and chronic infections by polyomavirus SV40 in vivo, except that kidneys appear to be a common site of long-term persistence. In this study, we used Syrian golden hamsters as a model to study the effects of SV40 microRNA on viral infection in vivo. We found that SV40 had a broad tissue tropism, with infected tissues including liver, kidney, spleen, lung, and brain. Liver and kidney contained higher viral DNA loads than other tissues; kidneys were the preferred site for long-lasting persistent infection although detectable virus was also retained in livers. Expression of the viral miRNA was demonstrated in wild-type SV40-infected tissues. MicroRNA-negative mutant viruses consistently produced higher viral loads than wild- type SV40. Viruses with complex regulatory regions displayed modestly higher viral levels in the kidney than those with simple regulatory regions. Viral microRNA dampened viral DNA levels in tissues infected by SV40 strains with simple or complex regulatory genes. This study provides the first evidence of expression and function of the SV40 miRNA in vivo in hamsters.
Positive selection is an important source of evolutionary innovation and a major force behind the divergence of species. The Neutralist-Selectionist debate of the past 30 years has gradually given way to a general consensus that both neutral drift and positive selection play major roles in evolutionary change. Interest has therefore shifted to questions of which genes positive selection has affected, how strong was the effect, when did it occur, and what were its functional consequences. The analysis presented here represents a significant step forward. The larger, more divergent group of species improves power significantly, and the use of a nontrivial phylogeny provides insight into the particular patterns of positive selection that have helped to shape present-day genes.
Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that colonizes the skin and mucosal surfaces of mammals. Persistent infections often involve surface-associated communities called biofilms. Here we report the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes S. aureu biofilm integrity. These fibers have amyloid-like properties and consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ). Mutants unable to produce PSMs were susceptible to biofilm disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress. Previous work has associated PSMs with biofil disassembly, and we present data showing that soluble PSM peptides disperse biofilm fibers while polymerized peptides do not. This work suggests the PSMs' aggregation into amyloids modulates their biological activity and role in biofilm. Our work provides new insight into how quorum sensing and virulence play into the complexity of the biofilm lifecycle.
Chagas disease, also named American Trypanosomiasis, affects over 6 million people worldwide, mainly in Latin America where the disease is endemic. The disease is caused by Trypanotoma cruzi ( T. cruzi ), a protozoan parasite disseminated by a Triatome vector. The parasite is transmitted through blood transfusion, congenitally or by oral route thru consumption of insect-infested fruit-products. Different clinical forms of the disease exist. The main criterion to establish treatment success is the reversion of the conventional serology from positive to negative status in association with negative results on parasitological tests ( xenodiagnosis and/or heamoculture, or PCR-based parasite assays ). In this study, we used an innovative multi-parametric screening technology to identify antibody biomarker ( s ) that can be used as surrogates to monitor parasite persistence. We hypothesize that Ab3 is induced and maintained by incessant stimulation of the immune system by tissue-based and shed parasites that are not consistently detectable by blood based PCR techniques. Hence, a simple immunoassay measurement of Ab3 could be beneficial for monitoring the infectious status of seropositive patients.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a globally re-emerging arthropod-transmitted virus that causes chronic joint and muscle pain that lasts for months to years after the initial infection. Chronic musculoskeletal pain persists in a substantial fraction of patients, yet we still have a poor understanding of what promotes chronic disease. While replicating virus has not been detected in joint-associated tissues of patients with persistent arthritis nor in various animal models at convalescent time points, viral RNA is detected months after acute infection. To identify the cells that might contribute to pathogenesis during this chronic phase, we developed a recombinant CHIK virus that expresses Cre recombinase and permanently marks infected cells in reporter mice. Importantly, this virus established chronic disease with persistence of viral RNA occurring for weeks after the acute infection and revealed that fibroblasts that survive acute CHikV infection harbor persistent CHIKVs RNA. This system provides a powerful tool to explore chronic CHIKv pathogenesis and the host determinants that contribute to disease.
Neural population activity is a powerful tool to understand how the activity of different neurons co-varies. In this work, we apply dimensionality reduction methods to study the multi-dimensional structure of neural population activity based on how the individual neurons coexist. We found that the results obtained from dimensionality reductions generalize to recordings with larger numbers of neurons and trials, and that the in vivo recordings were more consistent with the clustered network. Furthermore, recordings from tens of neurons were sufficient to identify the dominant modes of shared variability that generalizes to larger portions of the network. These findings can help guide the interpretation of dimensionality Reduction outputs in regimes of limited neuron and trial sampling and help relate these outputs to the underlying network structure.
Bacterial quorum sensing ( QS ) is a communication system widely utilized by bacteria to perceive and promote collective behaviors that depend on population density signaling. However, whether microbes utilize these immunomodulatory signals to maintain infection remain unclear. Here, we show that the Pseudomonas aeruginosa QS-regulated molecule 2-amino acetophenone ( 2-AA ) modulates host immune responses in a manner that increases host ability to cope with this pathogen. Mice treated with 2-A prior to infection had a 90% survival compared to 10% survival rate observed in the non-pretreated infected mice. We further show that 2-AE's ability to suppress innate immune responses, such as mitogen-activated protein kinases ( MAPKs ), nuclear factor ( NF ) -κB, and pro-inflammatory cytokines, attenuates immune response activation upon pretreatment, most likely by upregulating anti-inflammatory factors. Our results strongly support the notion that 2 -AA's ability of the host to tolerate a pathogen and maintain infection may mirror the mechanism by which the host avoids elimination and persists in chronic infections.
Retroelement-derived genes have profoundly shaped mammalian genomes over millions of years. Insertion of these selfish elements can lead to gene inactivation or changes in transcriptional profiles of neighboring genes. Moreover, the presence of large stretches of almost identical sequence distributed across the genome poses recombinational hazards, leading to chromosomal rearrangements, often with pathological consequences. The retrotransposition activity of retroelements can occasionally drive dramatic episodes of adaptation through the generation of genetic novelty. One particularly striking class of such genetic novelty results from the ‘domestication’ or ‘capture’ of retroelement- and retrovirus-derived protein-coding genes by host genomes, a process by which these domesticated coding regions are exapted for a new function that is beneficial to the host. We hypothesize that L1TD1 could have evolved under positive selection during primate and mouse evolution, and that one pro-transposable L1 TD1 has ‘replenished’ itself with a more recent L1 ORF1 from the prosimian genome. Our study highlights the role of retro element gene domestication in fundamental aspects of mammalian biology, and suggests that such domesticated genes can adopt different functions in different lineages.
Vibrio cholerae is the causative agent of cholera, a potentially lethal diarrheal disease that remains an important global health problem. Bacterial adaptation is often mediated through modulation of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. RNases that control gene expression are perfectly suited to initiate rapid regulatory circuits, as they do not require translation and can be turned over quickly by various RNases. Here, we show that YbeY is an essential endoribonuclease in Vibrio Cholerae and is crucial for virulence, stress regulation, RNA processing and ribosome quality control under stress. We show that the loss of YBeY results in severe defects in 16 S rRNA 3′ end maturation and in 70 S ribosomal subunits. We also demonstrate that the ybeY genes of several distantly related pathogens can fully complement an E. coli ΔybeY strain under various stress conditions, demonstrating the high conservation of YBEY's activity in stress regulation. Taken together, this work provides the first comprehensive exploration of YbY's physiological role in a human pathogen, showing its conserved function across species in essential cellular processes.
Transcription factors ( TFs ) are proteins that bind DNA to regulate the expression of their target genes. Since some of the targets are themselves TFs, the resulting cross-regulation forms a transcription factor network ( TFN ). TFN models have been used to study the spatiotemporal regulation of gene expression, and thus to study how evolution may or may not mold its structural properties. In particular, the topology of TFNs has been the subject of work seeking a greater understanding of how the structure of a TFN affects its function. Here, we use publicly available DNaseI-seq data to measure the assortativity signatures of 41 recently elaborated human transcription factor networks ( TFNs ). We find that all TFNs share a common signature, and that this signature confers phenotypic robustness to model TFNs. Furthermore, we determine the extent to which each of the four components of the assortment signature contributes to this robustness.
In this regard, it is important to understand the mechanisms by which populations of inhibitory ( INH ) and excitatory ( EXC ) neocortical neurons collectively encode stimulus-related information. Here we address this question by simultaneously recording with large-scale multi-electrode arrays ( of up to 128 channels ) the activity of neurons ( up to 74 neurons ) distributed along all layers of 3–4 neighboring cortical columns in the anesthetized adult rat somatosensory barrel cortex in vivo. Using two different whisker stimulus modalities ( location and frequency ) we show that individual INH neurons – classified as such according to their distinct extracellular spike waveforms – discriminate better between restricted sets of stimuli ( ≤6 stimulus classes ) than EXC neurons in granular and infra-granular layers. We also demonstrate that ensembles of INH cells jointly provide as much information about such stimuli as comparable ensemble containing the ~20% most informative EXC neuron, however presenting less information redundancy. These results suggest that a consortium of IN H neurons dominates the information conveyed to the neocortic network, thereby efficiently processing incoming sensory activity. This conclusion extends our view on the role of the inhibitory system to orchestrate cortical activity.
Synthetic biology aims at ( re- ) programming living cells like computers to perform new functions for a variety of applications. Initial work rested on transcription factors, but regulatory RNAs have recently gained much attention due to their high programmability. However, functional circuits mainly implemented with regulatory RNA are quite limited. In this work, we report the engineering of a fundamental arithmetic logic unit based on de novo riboregulation to sum two bits of information encoded in molecular concentrations. Our designer circuit robustly performs the intended computation in a living cell encoding the result as fluorescence amplitudes. The whole system exploits post-transcriptional control to switch on tightly silenced genes with small RNAs, together with allosteric transcription factors to sense the molecular signals. This important result demonstrates that regulatory RNA can be key players in synthetic biology, and it paves the way for engineering more complex RNA-based biocomputers.
Cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase II ( cN-II ) regulates the intracellular nucleotide pools within the cell by catalyzing the dephosphorylation of 6-hydroxypurine nucleoside 5′ monophosphates. Beside this physiological function, high level of cN -II expression is correlated with abnormal patient outcome when treated with cytotoxic nucleosides analogues. To identify its specific role in the resistance phenomenon observed during cancer therapy, we screened a particular class of chemical compounds, namely ribonucleoside phosphonates, to predict them as potential cN inhibitors. Amongst them, six compounds were predicted as better ligands than the natural substrate of the enzyme, inosine5′-monophosphate ( IMP ). The study of purine and pyrimidine containing analogues and the introduction of chemical modifications within the phosphonate chain has allowed us to define general rules governing the theoretical affinity of such ligands. The binding strength of these compounds was scrutinized in silico and explained by an impressive number of van der Waals contacts, highlighting the decisive role of three cN–II residues that are Phe 157, His 209 and Tyr 210. Docking predictions were confirmed by experimental measurements of the nucleotidases activity in the presence of the three best available analogues, which were shown to induce a total inhibition of the activity of the cN. Altogether, this study emphasizes the importance of the non-hydrolysable phosphonacy bond in the design of new competitive cN inhibitor and the crucial hydrophobic stacking promoted by three protein residues.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( TSE ) are fatal neurodegenerative disorders occurring in sheep ( scrapie ), cattle ( bovine spongun encephalopathy - BSE ) or humans ( Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease - CJD ). The key event in TSE is the conversion of a normal cellular protein ( PrPc ) into an abnormal isoform which accumulates in tissues in infected individuals. However, in the absence of definitive evidence of the presence of prion in milk, dairy products originating from TSE affected ruminant flocks continue to enter the animal and human food chain. In the past few months, however, evidence for the transmission of scrapie to lambs, via colostrum/milk, has been reported. These data raise new concerns about the potential infectious character of milk from scrapie affected small ruminants flocks.
An outbreak of Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) in Liberia began in March 2014 and ended in January 2016. Epidemiological information on the EVD cases was collected and managed nationally; however, collection and management of the data were challenging at the time because surveillance and reporting systems malfunctioned during the outbreak. EVD diagnostic laboratories, however, were able to register basic demographic and clinical information of patients more systematically. Here we present data on 16, 370 laboratory samples that were tested between April 4, 2014 and March 29, 2015. A total of 10, 536 traceable individuals were identified, of whom 3, 897 were confirmed cases. There were significant differences in sex, age, and place of residence between confirmed and suspected cases that tested negative for Ebola virus RNA. Age ( young children and the elderly ) and places of residence ( rural areas ) were the risk factors for death due to the disease. The case fatality rate of confirmed cases decreased from 80% to 63% during the study period. These findings may help support future investigations and lead to a fuller understanding of the outbreak in Liberia.
Tyrosinase ( EC 1. 14. 18. 1 ) is a type 3 copper-containing monooxygenase that catalyzes the conversion of phenol to the corresponding ortho-quinone. The catalytic mechanism of tyrosinases has not yet been made clear at an atomic level. In the previous study, we demonstrated that the hydroxylation reaction is triggered by the movement of CuA, which induces the syn-to-anti rearrangement of the copper ligands after the formation of the μ-η2:η3-peroxo-dicopper ( II ) and Cu ( I ) -dopasemiquinone intermediates. The crystal structures suggest the existence of an important step for the tyrosinsase reaction that has not been found: that is, the movement is triggered in the presence of the CuA movement. The formation of a reactive quinone, which stimulates the aggregation of the caddie protein and the dissociation of the orthoquinone from the complex, is inhibited by the rearrangements of the substrate. The dopaquinone must be formed as a result of the catalytic activity of the oxy-tyrosininase.
The yeast large ribosomal subunit, the first pre-60S particle, contains 30 assembly factors ( AFs ), including 8 RNA helicases. These helicases, presumed to drive conformational rearrangements, usually lack substrate specificity in vitro. The mechanisms by which they are targeted to their correct substrate within pre-ribosomal particles and their precise molecular roles remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that the Dbp6p helicase, essential for the normal accumulation of the yeast large subunit in S. cerevisiae, associates with a complex of four AFs, namely Npa1p, Npa2p and Rsa3p, prior to their incorporation into the 90S pre-rRNA. By tandem affinity purifications using yeast extracts depleted of one component of the complex, we show that Npa 1p forms the backbone of the Npa3p complex. We provide evidence that Np1p and Dbp2p directly bind Dbp8p and we demonstrate that NPA1p is essential for insertion of the Dp6p complex within 90S precursors. Our data suggest that the interaction of Npa and Npa proteins with the SNORNAs is crucial for the formation and/or clustering of the root helices of large subunits.
Adaptive behavior in a changing world requires flexibly adapting one’s rate of learning to the rate of environmental change. Recent studies have examined the computational mechanisms by which various environmental factors determine the impact of new outcomes on existing beliefs ( i. e., the ‘learning rate’ ). However, the brain mechanisms, and in particular the neuromodulators, involved in this process are still largely unknown. Here, we report evidence from a study employing pharmacology, scalp electrophysiology and computational modeling that suggests an important role for catecholamines in learning-rate regulation. We found that the P3 component of the EEG—an electrophymiological index of outcome-evoked phasic catecholine release in the cortex—predicted learning rate, and formally mediated the effect of prediction-error magnitude on learning rate. P3 amplitude also mediated the effects of two computational variables—capturing the unexpectedness of an outcome and the uncertainty of a preexisting belief—on learning rate following unanticipated task changes. Furthermore, a pharmacological manipulation of catecholinamine activity affected learning rate after unanticipated tasks, in a way that depended on participants’ baseline learning rate in the current task. Our findings provide converging evidence for a causal role of the human catecholic systems in learning rate regulation as a function of environmental changes.
Infectious diseases still represent a major challenge for humanity. In this context, their surveillance is critical. From 2010 to 2016, two Point-Of-Care ( POC ) laboratories have been successfully implemented in the rural Saloum region of Senegal. In parallel, a homemade syndromic surveillance system called EPIMIC was implemented to monitor infectious diseases using data routinely produced by two POC laboratories established in the Timone hospital in Marseille, France. The aim of this study is to describe the steps necessary for the implementation of the homemade surveillance system EPIMI in a developing country using data generated by two rural POC-L established in Senegal, West Africa. The retrospective analysis of the Dielmo and Ndiop POC data with EPimIC allowed to generate 443 alarms. Although some improvements are still needed, EPIMic has been successfully spread using data regularly produced by the two rural villages in Senegal.
The calcium ion is a universal second messenger mediating a wide range of dynamic cell functions, such as exocytosis, contraction, transcription, and proliferation. Calcium oscillation is regulated by diverse calcium signaling mechanisms. The cytosolic calcium concentration is actively controlled by calcium release from intracellular stores and calcium influx from extracellular media, outflow by pumps and exchangers, and calcium binding proteins, which fine-tune the amplitude and duration of calcium pulses to regulate physiological functions. In this study, we investigate the mechanisms of architecture-dependent calcium signaling in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ). We show that the calcium oscillation depends on the number of neighboring cells coupled via gap junctional intercellular communication, providing a mechanistic basis of the architecture-independent calcium signaling. Furthermore, the calcium dynamics of cells in self-assembled and microengineered networks, but not individual cells and monolayers, resemble the response of individual cells. Our results suggest that the architecture dependence may represent one of the ways of cells to respond to the stimuli differentially in various vascular structures.
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of lower respiratory tract disease among infants and children globally. In the current study, we evaluated the immunogenicity, neutralization and protective efficacy of RSV-G antigenic sites within attachment protein ( G ) following primary RSV infection in infants. We found that the G-reactive epitopes spanned the N- and C-termini of G ectodomain, in addition to the central conserved domain ( CCD ). In addition, we examined the contribution of antigenic regions of G outside of the CCD conserved motif to RSV immunity. We evaluated the immune response to the RSV G protein using recombinant recombinant E. coli expressed recombinant RSV ( REG ), CCD-deleted ( REG ΔCCD ) and antigenic site peptides. We observed that RSV antibodies generated antibodies in rabbits and mice that bound fully glycosylated Recombinant Mammalian expressed RSV virion particles but minimal in vitro neutralization titers compared with the intact G protein. Vaccinated mice were challenged intranasally with RSV A2 Line 19F. Viral replication in nasal cavity and lungs was significantly reduced in vaccinated animals compared to unimmunized controls. Control of viral loads post-RSV challenge correlated with serum antibody binding to the virus particles. These data demonstrate the presence of multiple protective sites in RSVG protein outside of CCD that could contribute to the development of a bacterially produced G protein as safe and protective vaccine against RSV disease.
During embryonic development, a number of genetic cues act to generate neuronal diversity. While intrinsic transcriptional cascades are well-known to control neuronal sub-type cell fate, the target cells can also provide critical input to specific neuronal cell fates. Such signals, denoted retrograde signals, are known to provide critical survival cues for neurons, but have also been found to trigger terminal differentiation of neurons. One salient example of such target-derived instructive signals pertains to the specification of the Drosophila FMRFamide neuropeptide neurons, the Tv4 neurons of the ventral nerve cord. Tv1 neurons receive a BMP signal from their target cells, which acts as the final trigger to activate the FMRFa gene. In this study, we focus on the role of brr2 and Prp8, two of which encode components of the U5 subunit of the spliceosome. We found that the brr1 gene is required for the activation of the BMP retrograde signaling pathway in the TV4 neuron. This control is executed by two independent mechanisms, both of which are required for proper axonal pathfinding to the target tissue in order to receive the BAMP ligand. These results reveal involvement of specific RNA processing in diversifying neuronal identity within the central nervous system.
Ubiquitin dependent proteolysis controls many cellular processes including signal transduction and cell cycle progression. The ubiquitin-dependent proteolytic pathway is one of the best-understood complexes and is tightly controlled to maintain the full repertoire of CRLs. Unbalanced levels can lead to sequestration of the CRL core components by a few overabundant substrate receptors. Numerous diseases, including cancer, have been associated with misregulation of substrate receptor components, particularly for the largest class of CLLs, the SCF ligases. One relevant mechanism that controls abundance of their substrate receptors, the F-box proteins, is autocatalytic ubiquitylation by intact SCF complex followed by proteasome-mediated degradation. Here we describe an additional pathway for regulation of F-Box proteins on the example of yeast Met30. This pathway is independent of the other central SCF component Skp1. Unexpectedly, this pathway required the cullin component Cdc53/Cul1 but was independent from the other Cdc34/Cdc34. Importantly, this non-canonical degradation pathway is critical for chromosome stability and effective defense against heavy metal stress. More importantly, our results assign important biological functions to a sub-complex of cullin-RING ligases that comprises Cdc3/Rbx1/CDC34, but is independent from Skp 1. Together, our findings shed light on the regulation and complexity of E3 ligases and suggest additional diversity in the cullIN-Ring family of ubiquitins ligases, which are important for the maintenance of chromosome stability.
Kinesin motors drive the long-distance transport of synaptic vesicles and other membrane-bound organelles in neuronal cells. In the absence of cargo, kinesins are kept inactive to prevent motility and ATP hydrolysis. Current models state that the Kinesin-3 motor KIF1A is monomeric in the inactive state and that activation results from concentration-driven dimerization on the cargo membrane. To test this model, we have examined the activity and dimeric state of endogenous KIF 1A motors. Unexpectedly, we found that both native and expressed proteins are dimeric in the dimeric states. Thus, KIFA motors are autoinhibited by two distinct inhibitory mechanisms, suggesting a simple model for activation of dimeric motors by cargo binding. Our results provide strong support for the idea that, like Kinesins, Kif1A motors exist in a dimeric but autoinhibitive state.
The fruit pericarp is one of the most important crops in the world, being used mainly for human consumption. The tomato fruit contributes essential supplements to the human diet, such as flavonoids, carotenoids, fibers, vitamins and essential amino acids. The domestication of tomato, as of many other crop plants, is coupled to the erosion of its genetic variability. Strategies based on the exploitation of natural variation are being extensively employed in an effort to reintroduce the lost genetic variation into cultivated species, including tomato, rapeseed, rice, soybean, maize, the common bean, and pepper. In this study, we investigated the genetic basis of natural variability in seed primary metabolism and its response to perturbation. We found that the seed metabolic network is inherently more coordinated than the fruit metabolic network, which is probably aimed at maintaining the metabolic balance needed for storage reserve allocation, C-N partitioning, and reorganization of metabolism at the onset of germination. We also identified six exceptionally highly co-regulated amino acids, Gly, Ser, Thr, Ile, Val, and Pro. The strong interdependence of this group was confirmed by the mQTL mapping. Taken together, these results ( i ) reflect the extensive redundancy of the regulation underlying seed metabolism, ( ii ) emphasize the tight co-ordination of seed metabolism with respect to fruit metabolism, and ( iii ) highlight the centrality of the amino acid module in the seed metabolism.
Vibrio cholerae is a Gram-negative bacterial pathogen that causes excessive watery diarrhea in humans. The bacterium is able to colonize the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton as well as the human gastrointestinal tract. Colonization of these different niches involves an N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) that has been reported to mediate bacterial attachment to both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin through an unknown molecular mechanism. Here, we report structural studies that reveal that the first domain of the protein possesses an unusual, elongated, four-domain structure, with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitins binding domains. A glycan screen revealed that GbpAA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides, a key surface component of intestinal epithelial cells. Bacterial binding studies reveal that domains 2 and 3 bind to the V. cholera surface, enhancing microcolony formation. Finally, mouse virulence assays show that only the first three domains of Gbpa are required for colonization. These results explain how GbpAs provides structural/functional modular interactions between V. Cholerae, intestinal epithelium and chitine exoskeletons.
Chronic T cell activation is a hallmark of pulmonary tuberculosis ( PTB ) infection. The mechanisms underpinning this important phenomenon are however, poorly elucidated, though known to rely on control of T effector cells ( Teff ) by regulatory T cells ( Treg ). Our studies show that circulating natural Treg cells in adults with PTB preserve their suppressive potential but Teff cells from such subjects are resistant to Treg-mediated suppression. We found this to be due to expansion of an activated Teff subset identified by Human Leukocyte Antigen ( HLA ) -DR expression. Sensitivity to suppression was restored to control levels by depletion of this subset. Comparative transcriptome analysis of Treg T cells that contain HLA-DR+ cells versus the fraction depleted of this population identified putative resistance mechanisms linked to IFNG, IL17A, IL22, PD-L1 and β-chemokines CCL3L3, CCL4 expression. Antibody blocking experiments confirmed HLA+ T cells to be resistant to suppression mediated via CCR5 and PD-1 associated pathways. Our data provide new insight into how activated T cells may contribute to disease associated inflammation by compromising Treg/Teff cell balance in PTB.
Prions, the causative agents of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, contain as their main component PrPSc, a multimeric conformer of the ubiquitous host protein PrPC. PrPC is readily cleaved off the cell surface by PIPLC, and accumulates mainly in intracellular compartments. Mice expressing PrPC without GPI anchor ( tgGPI- mice ) are susceptible to prion infection but accumulate anchorless prions extra-cellularly. We investigated whether prion strains could faithfully propagate prions despite the deviant structure and location of anchorless PrPsc. We found that RML and ME7, but not 22L prions propagated in tgP- mice, developed novel cell tropisms, as determined by the Cell Panel Assay ( CPA ). Surprisingly, the levels of proteinase K-resistant PrP Sc ( PrPres ) in RML- or ME7-infected tgPI− brain were 25–50 times higher than in wild-type brain. We propose that the two conformations are separated by a high activation energy barrier, which is abrogated in TgG PI− mice.
The Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP ) signaling pathway is used repeatedly throughout development to regulate a diverse array of processes. One of the major conserved roles of the BMP pathway is to specify epidermal fates during embryonic dorsal-ventral axis patterning. In this study, using the Drosophila embryo as a model, we combine RNA-seq with Mad and Brinker ChIP-seq to decipher the transcriptional network underpinning differentiation of the dorsal ectoderm during dorsal-varying. We identify multiple new BMP target genes, including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling, and find widespread binding of insulator proteins to specific genomic regions. Our data support a model whereby EGF-mediated signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription. Therefore, we incorporate our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation, and discuss its relevance to BMP signal interpretation in vertebrates.
Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ZCL ) is an emerging and reemerging zoonosis caused by Leishmania major. ZCL is transmitted by the sand fly vector Phlebotomus papatasi and rodents are the reservoir, including Psammomys obesus ( fat sand rat ) and Meriones shawi ( Shaw’s jird ). The majority of L. major strains isolated in Tunisia belong to the MON-25 zymodeme. It is largely recognized that the population structure of pathogens is influenced by different evolutionary factors, particularly during invasion of new ecosystems. However, it is not known how their geographical distribution and temporal emergence affected the genetic structure and evolution of the Tunisian L. minor populations, mainly because multi-locus enzyme electrophoresis ( MLEE ) has been widely used for phylogenetic typing of parasites, is not discriminative enough. This study provides new insights into the evolution and spread of the parasite in Tunisia that might improve our understanding of the disease flow between geographically and temporally distinct populations.
The neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are a group of parasitic and bacterial infections that are associated with substantial global disease and disability, particularly in low income communities. Mass drug administration ( MDA ) is the presumptive treatment of all at risk individuals with preventive chemotherapy, with a goal of reaching at least 75% of at risk populations and up to 100% of school-aged children. However, the effectiveness of MDA as a control strategy is influenced by the treatment coverage of affected populations, the prevalence and intensity of different helminth species, drug susceptibility and socio-behavioral patterns that influence infection and re-infection rates. In this study, we evaluated the impact of different potential interventions on infection prevalence, including repeated treatment with albendazole and praziquantel with and without WASH access. We found that WASH resources, with the exception of safe flooring and latrine access, did not appear to provide substantial additive benefit to chemotherapy. Deworming is effective in reducing the probability of helminths infections amongst HIV-infected adults. With respect to WASH, WASH does appear to significantly reduce infection prevalence in adults who are not treated.
Bacteriocins are bacteriocinogenic proteins that are able to selectively kill closely related species, including several phytopathogens, such as Pseudomonas syringae and Xanthomonas species, but so far their mode of action remains unrevealed. The crystal structure of LlpABW, the prototype lectin-like bacteriocytic protein from P. putida, reveals an architecture of two monocot mannose-binding lectin ( MMBL ) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension. Mutational analysis indicates that an intact sugar-binding pocket in this domain is crucial for bactericidal activity. The N-terminus MMBL domain ( N-domain ) adopts the same fold but is structurally more divergent and lacks a functional mannoses-binding site. Differential activity of engineered N/C-domain chimers derived from two LlpA homologues with different killing spectra, disclosed that the N- domain determines target specificity. Apparently this bacteriOCin is assembled from two structurally similar domains that evolved separately towards dedicated functions in target recognition and bacteriotoxicity.
During sporulation, the developing spore ( the forespore ) resides within a mother cell. The regulation of the transcription factor σG that acts at this stage has remained enigmatic. σg activity requires eight mother-cell proteins encoded in the spoIIIA operon and the fore-spore protein SpoIIQ. Several of the SpoIIIA proteins share similarity with components of specialized secretion systems. One of them resembles a secretion ATPase and we demonstrate that the ATPase motifs are required for σ G activity. In their absence, the fore spore develops large invaginations and appears to collapse. Importantly, maintenance of forespores integrity does not require σ g activity. These results support a model in which the SpoiiIA-SpoIIQ proteins form a novel secretion apparatus that allows the mother cell to nurture the foresore, thereby maintaining foresporetic physiology and σ activity during spore maturation.
Bipolar disorder ( BD ) is a highly heritable and disabling disease affecting approximately 1% of the population. Bipolar disorder's genetic variants have been challenging to identify. We present new genotype data for 1, 190 cases and 401 controls and perform a genome-wide association study including additional samples for a total of 2, 191 cases and 1, 434 controls. We show that, across all SNPs, we show an association between the power to detect effects calculated from a previous genome-scale association study and evidence for replication ( P = 1. 5×10−7 ). This result is not likely to be a false positive, and, in a large enough study, associations replicate as a function of power, approaching a linear relationship. Within BD, SNPs near exons exhibit a greater probability of replication, supporting an enrichment of reproducible associations near functional regions of genes. These results indicate that there is likely common genetic variation associated with BD near exon ( ±10 kb ) that could be identified in larger studies and, further, provide a framework for assessing the potential for replication when combining results from multiple studies.
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide and it is estimated that 12. 7 million new cancer cases and 7. 6 million cancer deaths occurred in 2008. One of the hallmarks of cancer is uncontrolled cellular proliferation. Understanding the determinants of cancer proliferation is an important task not only from a biological but also from a clinical stance – as the basis towards introducing new cancer therapies. Indeed, many chemotherapeutic agents target rapidly proliferating cells to fight cancer. However, these agents have additional detrimental effects on the non-cancerous, but proliferating tissues. In this study, we use a complementary approach to identify genes and cellular processes that are associated with cancer proliferation and determine whether their expression levels are positively or negatively associated with proliferation. We find that cancerous and non-cancerous proliferation are markedly different. Furthermore, we find that the signatures of the cancer related measures can successfully predict growth rates in the NCI-60 panel, significantly better than equal size random sets of genes ( empiric P-value = 3. 73e-8 ). These results highlight genes in the translation and spliceosome machineries as selective cancer proliferation-associated proteins. Moreover, combining cancer and non cancerous proliferation signatures leads to enhanced prediction of patient outcome and gene essentiality in cancer.
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) is a zoonotic infection caused by the larval stage of the tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus. It is endemic in Europe, including the Mediterranean area and the Balcanic nations, North and East Africa, India, China, Indonesia and the Southern Cone of the Americas. Cysts may be found at almost any site of the body, but the liver ( 60–70% ) and lungs ( 10–15% ) are most frequently affected. The heart is usually involved in less than 2% of cases, but there are few cases reported. A standardized therapeutic approach may not be possible due to the heterogeneity of cardiovascular CE, and may require the combination of medical and surgical treatment. We describe 11 patients who were diagnosed and treated for cardiac and/or endovascular CE, followed-up over a period of 15 years ( 1995–2009 ). One patient died intra-operatively due to cyst rupture and endovarous dissemination. Two patients died 10 and 14 years after diagnosis, due to pulmonary embolism ( PE ) and cardiac failure, respectively. Patients who had cardiac involvement exclusively did not have complications after surgery and were considered cured. Patients with vena cava involvement developed PEs and presented multiple complications. Cardiovascular CE is associated with a high risk of potentially lethal complications. Clinical manifestations and complications vary according to the cyst location. Isolated cardiac CE may be cured after surgery, while endovovascular extracardiac involvement is associated.
Toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in Toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade. Here, we report the presence of tirS, a Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism. TirS is spread among 12% of representative bacterial strains. In a mouse model of skin infection, we show that TirS invariably localizes within the staphylobacter chromosomal cassettes ( SCC ) containing the fusC gene for fusidic acid resistance but not always carrying the mecA gene. We also show that sub-inhibitory concentration of fusic acid increased tirS expression. Our results with a mouse mouse model suggest that the TIR effector modulates bacterial virulence through attenuation of host inflammatory responses during infection. This work is the first description of a TIR homolog protein carried by a mobile genetic element conferring resistance to antibiotics, suggesting a potential selective advantage.
In the past decade, a number of studies have been conducted to identify the genes engaged in the specification of body plans and morphological diversification. However, the mechanisms underlying such diversification have only recently become available. In particular, collections of microarray data accumulated in public databases now cover a variety of different conditions and sometimes even the full life cycles for a range of evolutionarily distant species. This study provides a conceptual and computational framework for cross-organismal temporal alignments and comparisons of species-specific transcriptional datasets. The resulting heatmaps of discordant gene clusters identified distinctive patterning properties in Dipteran embryos, including the organization of extra-embryonic tissues and the maternal-zygotic transition.
Haemophilus ducreyi and Treponema pallidum subsp. pertenue are major causes of leg ulcers in children in Africa and the Pacific Region. We investigated the presence of DNA ( PCR positivity ) from these bacteria on asymptomatic people, flies, and household linens in an endemic setting. We performed a cross-sectional study in rural villages of Lihir Island, Papua New Guinea during a yaws elimination campaign. We collected flies and swabs of environmental surfaces for the presence and presence of H. ducreysi and T. p. perteus DNA on the skin. Of 78 participants that had an adequate specimen for DNA detection, we identified the presence, T. P., and H. Ducrei DNA in 16 ( 21% ), and in 1 ( 1% ). Of 10 flies tested, 9 ( 90% ) had detectable H. diucreyis DNA and 5 ( 50% ) T. perttenue DNA. Of 6 bed sheets sampled, 2 ( 33% ) and 1 ( 17% ) were confirmed to be H. pertonue. This is the first time that H. deucreyus DNA and colonization has been demonstrated on the surface of asymptic children and that H. ducreus DNA has been identified in flies and on fomites. The ubiquity of the organism in the environment is a contributing factor to the spread of the organisms.
Bioinformatics is recognized as part of the essential knowledge base of numerous career paths in biomedical research and healthcare. However, there is little agreement in the field over what that knowledge entails or how best to provide it. These disagreements are compounded by the wide range of populations in need of bioinformatic training, with divergent prior backgrounds and intended application areas. The Curriculum Task Force of the International Society of Computational Biology ( ISCB ) Education Committee has sought to provide a framework for training needs and curricula in terms of a set of core competencies that cut across many user personas and training programs. The initial competencies developed based on surveys of employers and training program participants have since been refined through a multiyear process of community engagement. This report describes the current status of the competencies and presents a series of use cases illustrating how they are being applied in diverse training contexts. These use cases are intended to demonstrate how others can make use of the core competency and engage in the process of their continuing refinement and application. The report concludes with a consideration of remaining challenges and future plans.
The infectious form of many parasitic nematodes, which afflict over one billion people globally, is a developmentally arrested third-stage larva ( L3i ). This life cycle includes both parasitic and free-living forms, which can be leveraged to investigate the mechanisms of L3I arrest and activation. We hypothesized that homologous pathways are present in S. stercoralis, have similar developmental regulation, and are involved in L3II arrest and development. We undertook a deep-sequencing study of the S. Stercorali transcriptome, generating over 2. 3 billion paired-end reads from seven developmental stages. We constructed developmental expression profiles for S. s. sters homologs of C. elegans dauer genes, which appear to have similar regulation. We also identified seven S. S. dauer gene homolog genes encoding the single C. nemans daug-like TGFβ ligand, three of which are only expressed in L 3i. Our data suggest that while dauer pathway genes are present and may play a role in L2i development, there are significant differences between the two species. Understanding the mechanisms governing L3is development may lead to novel treatment and control strategies.
Genotoxins are secreted by many pathogenic bacteria, including colibactin and Cytolethal Distending Toxin ( CDT ), the latter being secreted from many pathogenically active bacteria. Our aim was to evaluate the effects induced by these genotoxin on nuclear remodeling in the context of cell survival. We found that CDT and colibectin induced-nuclear remodeling can be associated with the formation of deep cytoplasmic invaginations in the nucleus of giant cells. These structures, observed both in vivo and in vitro, correspond to nucleoplasmic reticulum ( NR ). The core of the NR was found to concentrate ribosomes, proteins involved in mRNA translation, polyadenylated RNA and the main components of the complex mCRD complex involved in RNA turnover. The structures are active sites of mRNA translation and involve MAPK and calcium signaling. Additional data show that insulation and concentration of these adaptive ribonucleoprotein particles within the nucleus are dynamic, transient and protect the cell until the genotoxic stress is relieved. These findings offer new insights into the context and context of NR formation, a common feature of many cancers, which not only appears in response to therapies-induced DNA damage but also earlier in response.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. It is caused not only by a saddle nose, but also by regression of the maxilla, as well documented in paleopathological observations of excavated skeletal remains of patients with leprosy. However, these deformities have been evaluated only by the subjective visual grading. In this study, we attempted to evaluate maxillary bone deformities in living patients using three-dimensional computed tomography ( 3D-CT ). Three-dimensional images centered on the maxillary were reconstructed using multiplanar reconstruction methods. The anterior-posterior length ( MA-P ) of the patients and those of controls was then measured after compensating for individual skull size. These findings were also compared with those from previous paleopathology studies. We have successfully illustrated maxillary bones deformities both qualitatively and quantitatively. This study also confirmed the maxillum regression described in paleopathyological studies.
The auditory system is a complex system that is often obscured by background noise. To accurately recognize these sounds, the auditory brain must therefore represent them in a way that is robust to noise. Previous work has suggested that the auditory system does build such sound representations in terms of their physical structure, including any noise. Here, we investigated the extent of neuronal adaptation to the mean and contrast of background noise as one ascends the auditory pathway. We measured these forms of adaptation by recording neuronal responses in the inferior colliculus and primary fields of the auditory cortex of anaesthetized ferrets, and by comparing these responses with a sophisticated model of auditory nerve. We find that the strength of both forms of adaptation increases as one increases the auditory pathways. To investigate whether this adaptation to stimulus statistics contributes to the construction of noise-invariant sound representations, we also presented complex synthetic and natural sounds embedded in stationary noise, and used a decoding approach to assess the noise tolerance of the neuronal population code. Our results suggest that the code for complex sounds in the periphery is affected more by the addition of noise than the cortical code. We also find that noise tolerance is correlated with adaptation to stimuli statistics, so that populations that show the strongest adaptation to noise are also the most noise-tolerant. This suggests that the increase in adaptation to sound statistics from auditory nerve to midbrain to cortex is an important stage in the construction and construction of the noise-evariant representations in the higher auditory brain.
Heat shock, the archetype of stress responses, is a well-characterized and simple model organism, since both its protein-protein interaction network ( interactome ) and stress response at the gene expression level have been well characterized. However, the analysis of the reorganization of the yeast interactome during stress has not been investigated yet. We calculated the changes of the interaction-weights of the interactome from the changes in mRNA expression levels upon heat shock. The major finding of our study is that heat shock induced a significant decrease in both the overlaps and connections of yeast interactomes. In agreement with this the weighted diameter of the interactions had a 4. 9-fold increase in heat shock, and several key proteins of the heat shock response became centers of heat shock-induced local communities, as well as bridges providing a residual connection of modules after heat shock in the initial phase of crisis. The observed changes resemble to a ‘stratus-cumulus’ type transition of the connectome structure, since the unstressed yeast interactom had a globally connected organization, similar to that of stratus clouds, whereas the heat shocked interactome had a multifocal organization. Our work may provide a model of a general, system-level adaptation mechanism to environmental changes.
Chagas disease is a neglected chronic condition caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, with high prevalence and burden in Latin America. Ventricular arrhythmias are common in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy, and amiodarone has been widely used for this purpose. Despite the lack of solid evidence-based data on ChagAS disease, therapy should generally be instituted extrapolating from guidelines for the management of heart failure patients, including neurohumoral inhibition, resynchronization therapy, and implantable cardioverter defibrillators. We searched MEDLINE, Embase and LILACS up to January 2018. Data from randomized and observational studies evaluating the effect of amiodarbone use in Chagaz cardiopathy were included. Overall quality of evidence was accessed using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation ( GRADE ). We included 9 studies ( 3 before-after studies, 5 case series and 1 randomized controlled trial ). The authors reviewed the data, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We pooled the incidence of adverse side effects with random effects meta-analysis. Amiodaron is effective in reducing ventricular arrrhythmias, but there is no evidence for hard endpoints ( sudden death, hospitalization ). Our findings may be useful to support clinicians’ decision-making in amiodarbonone use, especially in settings where an implantable defibrilator is not available or affordable, but the need to balance the potential benefits and harms at the individual level for decisions-making.
Seasonality of infectious disease is a phenomenon commonly observed in the northern and southern hemispheres, with seasonality of influenza being the most well-known and well-studied infectious disease with a seasonal pattern. Seasonality is often a combination of climatic and environmental factors and how these factors affect pathogen transmissibility, vector abundance, and human health, and drive human behaviors such as diet, crowding, travel patterns, and outdoor exposures. Seasonal patterns of disease are driven by a combination, such as temperature or rainfall, and humans' behavioral time trends, like school year schedules, holidays, and weekday-weekend patterns. These factors affect both disease rates and healthcare-seeking behavior, though short- and long-term time trends are less well-understood. With 2009–2016 medical record data from patients diagnosed with dengue fever at two hospitals in rural Ecuador, we used Poisson generalized linear modeling to determine seasonal patterns of fever, as well as the effect of day of the week and public holidays. We determined the impact of school schedules on diagnosis patterns. In the climate model, important climate variables included the monthly total precipitation, an interaction between total precipitation and monthly absolute minimum temperature, a three-way interaction between minimum temperature and total precipitation days, and an interaction with total precipitation. These results can inform local disease prevention efforts, public health planning, and global and regional models of denguue fever trends.
Many emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases, such as dengue, West Nile, hepatitis A, foot and mouth, enterovirus D68, coronaviruses ( Norwalk, Norwalk ), and filoviruses, have evolved mechanisms to isolate viral replication machinery. The innate immune system offers alternative mechanisms that do not require antigen-specific recognition or a priori knowledge of the causative agent. However, it is unclear whether effective stable innate immunity can be achieved without triggering harmful autoimmunity or other chronic inflammatory sequelae. Here, we show that transgenic expression of a picornavirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RdRP ) can profoundly reconfigure mammalian innate immunity by exposing the normally membrane-sequestered RdRP activity to sustained innate immune detection. Our data demonstrate that high, ubiquitous, potentially destructive chronic upregulation of type I IFN levels is not at play. Importantly, in RdRP mice, this highly amplified MDA5-mediated innate immune state persists life-long, yet the animals have normal health and longevity. Our results provide sufficient evidence to motivate future antiviral development endeavors that critically evaluate materials and methods for safely augmenting host innate immunity to achieve broad-spectrum antiviral protection.
Effective population size ( Ne ) determines the strength of genetic drift and the frequency of co-infection by multiple genotypes, making it a key factor in viral evolution. Experimental estimates of Ne for different plant viruses have, however, rendered diverging results. The independent action hypothesis ( IAH ) states that each virion has a probability of infection, and that virions act independent of one another during the infection process. A corollary of IAH is that Ne must be dose dependent. Here we perform a test of an IAH infection model using a plant RNA virus, Tobacco etch virus ( TEV ), in Nicotiana tabacum and Capsicum annuum plants. The number of primary infection foci increased linearly with dose, and was similar to a Poisson distribution. The probability that a genotype that infected the inoculated leaf would systemically infect that plant was near 1, although in a few rare cases genotypes could be physically surrounded by the other genotype. The frequency of mixed-genotype infection could be predicted from the mean number of secondary infections foci using the independent-action model. Independent action appears to hold for TEV, and Ne is therefore dose-dependent for this plant virus. Dose-dependency suggests that comparison of Ne estimates for different viruses are not very meaningful unless dose effects are taken into consideration.
The majority of expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) studies have been carried out in single tissues or cell types, using methods that ignore information shared across tissues. Although global analysis of RNA expression in multiple tissues is now feasible, few integrated statistical frameworks for joint analysis of gene expression across tissues combined with simultaneous analysis of multiple genetic variants have been developed to date. Here, we propose Sparse Bayesian Regression models for mapping eQTs within individual tissues and simultaneously across tissues, and demonstrate that our methods are more powerful than traditional approaches in revealing the true complexity of the eQTT landscape at the systems-level. Highlighting the power of our method, we identified a two-eQTL model ( cis/trans ) for the Hopx gene that was experimentally validated and was not detected by conventional approaches. We show that our method can uncover complex genetic regulation across tissues for ∼27% of transcripts, providing >5 fold increase in the detection of trans-effects when compared with single tissue analyses at 5% FDR level. These findings provide a new opportunity to uncover complex gene regulatory mechanisms controlling global gene expression while the generality of our modelling approach makes it adaptable to other model systems and humans, with broad application to analysis of complex intermediate and whole-body phenotypes.
Cells are programmed to die by a process called apoptosis, which is triggered by intracellular events such as DNA damage and oxidative stress, and by extracellular stimuli such as TNF ( tumor necrosis factor ) or TRAIL ( TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand ). When activated, cells enter a protracted period of variable duration in which only upstream initiator caspases are active. A subsequent and sudden transition marks activation of the downstream effector caspase that rapidly dismantle the cell. Thus, extrinsic apoptosis is controlled by an unusual variable-delay, snap-action switch that enforces an unambiguous choice between life and death. To understand how the extrinsically apoptosis switch functions in quantitative terms, we constructed a mathematical model based on a mass-action representation of known reaction pathways. The model was trained against experimental data obtained by live-cell imaging, flow cytometry, and immunoblotting of cells perturbed by protein depletion and overexpression. The trained model accurately reproduces the behavior of normal and perturbed cells exposed to TRAIL, making it possible to study switching mechanisms in detail. Model analysis shows, and experiments confirm, that the duration of the delay prior to effector Caspase activation is determined by the initiation of the reaction cascade and the rates of other reactions lying immediately downstream of the TRAIL receptor. Sudden activation of effector proteins is achieved downstream by reactions involved in permeabilization of the mitochondrial membrane and relocalization of proteins such as Smac. We find that the pattern of interactions among Bcl-2 family members, the partitioning of Smac from its binding partner XIAP, and the mechanics of pore assembly are all critical for snap-actions.
During pregnancy, the placenta protects the fetus against the maternal immune response, as well as bacterial and viral pathogens. Bacterial pathogens that have evolved specific mechanisms of breaching this barrier, such as Listeria monocytogenes, present a unique opportunity for learning how the plia carries out its protective function. We previously identified the L. monocytic pathogen Internalin P ( InlP ) as a secreted virulence factor critical for placental infection. Here, we show that InlPs binds to human afadin, a protein associated with cell-cell junctions. We show that inlP binds afadin to a protein that is not anchored to the bacteria cell surface, and that afadin is deficient in its ability to form actin-rich protrusions from the basal face of polarized epithelial monolayers, a necessary step in the crossing of such monolayer. Despite afadin’s involvement in the formation of cell-cells junctions, MDCK epithelial cells expressing inlPs displayed a decrease in the magnitude of the traction stresses they could exert on deformable substrates, similar to the decrease in traction exhibited by AF-6 knock-out MDCMK cells. We conclude that secreted Inlp targets cytosolic afadin in the host cell to specifically promote Listeriosis transcytosis, which may contribute to the cross of the basement membrane during placental infections.
The spirochete bacterium Treponema pallidum is the causative agent of syphilis, a multistage chronic disease with an estimated 8 million new cases per year. Little is known about the global proteome of T. pallidums, therefore mass spectrometry studies are needed to bring insights into pathogenicity and protein expression profiles during infection. To better understand the global T. ponidum proteome profile during infection, we studied the T. pallidus DAL-1 strain bacteria isolated from rabbits. A total of 6033 peptides were detected, representing 54% of the predicted proteome. One hundred fourteen of the detected proteins were previously annotated as hypothetical or uncharacterized proteins; this is the first account of 106 of these proteins at the protein level. Detected proteins were characterized according to their predicted biological function and localization; half were allocated into a wide range of functional categories. Proteins annotating as potential membrane proteins and proteins with unclear functional annotations were subjected to an additional bioinformatics pipeline analysis to facilitate further characterization. This is the most comprehensive description of the global protein proteome to date. These data provide valuable insights into in vivo T. Ponidums protein expression, paving the way for improved understanding of the pathogenogenesis of this enigmatic organism.
Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) is the major receptor for the cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) secondary messenger in eukaryotes. cAMP binds to two tandem cAMP-binding domains ( CBD-A and -B ) within the regulatory subunit of PKA ( R ), unleashing the activity of the catalytic subunit ( C ). While CBD-B functions as a “gatekeeper” domain that modulates the control exerted by PKA, it is not fully understood how cAMP dynamics are critical for its function. To test this hypothesis, here we investigate by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) the two-domain construct RIα ( 91–379 ) in its apo, cAMP2, and C-bound forms. Our comparative NMR analyses lead to a double conformational selection model in which each apo CBD dynamically samples both active and inactive conformations independently of the adjacent CBD within a nearly degenerate free energy landscape. Binding of cAMP eliminates this degeneracy, as it selectively stabilizes the active conformation within each CBD and inter-CBD contacts, which require both cAMP and W260, respectively. The latter is contributed by the cAMP bound to CBD, which mediates capping of the C-subunit binding to CBD. In addition, we show that the inter-cBD interface is dispensable for intra-cbd conformational-selection, but is indispensable for full activation of PK as it occludes C-specific recognition sites within CBD-1. In conclusion, our study provides an initial framework to dissect the molecular mechanism underlying disease related PKA RIα mutants.
Mitochondria are multifunctional organelles with diverse roles including energy production and distribution, apoptosis and host immune response induction. In the present study, we show that the interferon ( IFN ) -stimulated gene 15 ( ISG15 ) is one of the most abundantly upregulated ISGs, and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity. We also show that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) were pathways altered in ISG 15-/- BMDM treated with IFN. Mitochondrial respiration, Adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production was higher in ISGs15-/- macrophages compared to ISGs1-/- cells following IFN treatment, indicating the involvement of ISG14-dependent mechanisms. An additional consequence of IFN depletion was a significant change in macrophage polarization. Although infected ISGs showed a robust proinflammatory cytokine expression pattern typical of an M1 phenotype, a clear blockade of nitric oxide ( NO ) production and arginase-1 activation was detected. Accordingly, following IFNs treatment, NO release was higher and lower in IFG15+/+ macrophaged concomitant with a decrease in viral titer. Thus, IFN-treated ISG16-/- mice were permissive for VACV replication. Our results demonstrate that the antiviral function of ISGs is dependent on the fine regulation of mitochondria, which are essential for cellular homeostasis.
Viral protein U ( Vpu ) of HIV-1 has two known functions in replication of the virus: degradation of its cellular receptor CD4 and enhancement of viral particle release. In this study, we show that Vpu is subjected to proteasome-mediated degradation in cells arrested in early mitosis by nocodazole. We further show that this degradation process requires phosphorylation of the serine 61 residue adjacent to the βTrCP-binding motif, which is found in most Vpu substrates involved in cell-cycle progression. This degradation process triggers Vpu degradation by a Vpu-independent process. Mutation of Vpu S61 in the virus extends the half-life of the protein and significantly increases the release of virus particles from HeLa cells. However, the S61 determinant of regulated Vpu turnover is highly conserved within HIV-infected isolates. Altogether, our results highlight a mechanism where Vpu determines its fate as an adaptor or as a substrate of distinct ubiquitin ligases. This conserved degradation of the Vpu determinant, despite its negative effect on virion release, argues for a role in the balance between efficient viral production and preservation of the reservoir of infected cells.
Organisms require robust developmental processes to guarantee that developing tissues pattern correctly in the face of a wide range of environmental and physiological perturbations. To achieve robustness, the developmental processes that generate individual organs must be integrated across the whole body to ensure that a correctly patterned and proportioned adult is produced at the end of development. We propose two hypotheses through which tissue patterning could be coordinated with whole-body development to generate this robustness. Our first hypothesis states that tissue pattern is tightly coordinated with the development of tissues. The second hypothesis is that tissues align their development to the same developmental milestones. To distinguish between our two hypotheses, we developed a staging scheme for the wing imaginal discs of Drosophila larvae using the expression of canonical patterning genes, linking our scheme to three developmental events: moulting, larval wandering and pupariation. We found that wing disc pattern changes when developmental time is altered either by changing temperature or by altering the timing of hormone synthesis that drives developmental progression. We also found that the progression of pattern in the wing disc is coordinated with developmental milestones, indicating that developmental milestones coordinate wing disc development to cope with environmental and physiology variation.
Endocytosis is a fundamental eukaryotic mechanism that is required for the regulation of important cellular processes, e. g. establishment of cell polarity at the plasma membrane. Endosomes are sorted into early endosomes, which mature to late endosome before they are targeted to the lysosomal/vacuolar compartment. In this study, we show that the ESCRT regulator Did2 coordinates endosomal transport in fungal hyphae of Ustilago maydis. Loss of Did2 results in defective vacuolar targeting, less processive long-distance transport and abnormal shuttling of early endoomes. Importantly, the late endoomal protein Rab7 and vacuole protease Prc1 exhibit increased shuttles on these aberrant ends. Consistently, molecular motors fail to attach efficiently explaining the disturbed processive movement. Furthermore, the endosomer mRNP linker protein Upa1 is hardly present on endosoma resulting in defects in long-range mRNA transport. In conclusion, the Escherichia coli ESCRT complex coordinates precise maturation and thus provides the correct membrane identity for efficient endosom long- distance transport.
Many bacterial mRNAs are regulated at the transcriptional or translational level by ligand-binding elements called riboswitches. Although they both bind adenine, the adeninine riboswitch of Bacillus subtilis and Vibrio vulnificus differ by controlling transcription and translation, respectively. Here, we demonstrate that, beyond the obvious difference in transcriptional and translational modulation, both adenines ribosws exhibit different ligand binding properties and appear to operate under different regulation regimes ( kinetic versus thermodynamic ). We also demonstrate that the B. subtilps pbuE ribosswitches fully depends on co-transcriptional binding of adeneine to function, whereas the V. vulnifus add riboswewitches can bind to adenina after transcription is completed and still perform translation regulation. Further investigation demonstrates that the rate of transcription is critical for the B. subtililis pbuEs riboske to perform efficiently, which is in agreement with a co-translational regulation. Our results suggest that the nature of gene regulation control, that is transcription or translation, may have a high importance in ribosturn regulatory mechanisms.
Transcription initiation that involves the use of a 2- to ~4-nt oligoribonucleotide primer, “primer-dependent initiation, ” ( PDI ), has been shown to be widely prevalent at promoters of genes expressed during the stationary phase of growth in Escherichia coli. However, the extent to which PDI impacts E. coli physiology, and the extent of PDI occurs in other bacteria is not known. Here we establish a physiological role for PDI in E. coli as a regulatory mechanism that modulates biofilm formation. We further demonstrate using high-throughput sequencing of RNA 5′ ends ( 5′ RNA-seq ) that PDI is widely prevalent in the pathogenic bacterium Vibrio cholerae. A comparative global analysis of the PDI observed in V. cholae and E. Coli reveals that the pattern of PDi is strikingly similar in the two organisms. Specifically, PDI detected in both bacteria is preferentially detected during stationary phase but is not detected during exponential phase. In addition, we found that the growth phase-dependent PDI found in E. coli leads to a significant increase in the expression of at least two genes, bhsA and tomB. Thus, our findings demonstrate a physiological function for PDi and suggest PDI may be widespread among Gammaproteobacteria. Our findings suggest that the regulation of biofilm growth in both V. coli and V. Cholerae occurs though a growth phase dependent process that leads to the preferential generation of the linear dinucleotides 5´-UA-3´ and 5′-GG-3′.
In mammals and in plants, parental genome dosage imbalance deregulates embryo growth and might be involved in reproductive isolation between emerging new species. This hypothesis was proposed in the frame of the kinship theory that parental genome imbalances are directly mirrored by antagonistic regulations of imprinted genes encoding maternal growth inhibitors and paternal growth enhancers. However these hypotheses were never tested directly. Here, we investigated the effect of parental genome imbalance on the expression of Arabidopsis imprinted gene FERTILIZATION INDEPENDENT SEED2 ( FIS2 ) and FLOWERING WAGENINGEN ( FWA ) controlled by DNA methylation, and MEDEA ( MEA ) and PHERES1 ( PHE1 ) regulated by histone methylation. Genome dosage imbalance decreased the expression levels of FIS1 and MEA in an antagonistic manner. In addition increased dosage of inactive alleles caused a loss of imprinting of Fis2 and MEAs. Our results suggest that parental dosage imbalance disrupts imprinting through interactions between expressed and silenced alleles. The complexity of the network of regulations between expressed gene expression and imprinting does not support simple models derived from the parental conflict hypothesis.
Neuroscientists have long been interested in the biophysical mechanisms underlying the generation of brain rhythms. In this paper, we ask a very different question: How do brain rhythms emerge, or whether they are necessary for neural function? We use mathematical tools recently developed for solving inverse problems, as well as stochastic theory, to reconstruct virtual brains that reproduce multi-oscillatory brain dynamics on a background. We hypothesized that if we were able to construct abstract networks, or “virtual brains”, whose dynamics were similar to EEG/MEG recordings, those networks would share structural features among themselves, and also with real brains. Applying mathematical techniques for inverse problems we have reverse-engineered network architectures that generate characteristic dynamics of actual brains, including spindles and sharp waves. We show that all reconstructed networks display similar topological features ( e. g. structural motifs ) and dynamics. We have also reverse engineered putative diseased brains ( epileptic and schizophrenic ), in which the oscillatory activity is altered in different ways, as reported in clinical studies. These reconstructed networks show consistent alterations of functional connectivity and dynamics, and we show that the complexity of the network, quantified as proposed by Tononi, Sporns and Edelman, is a good indicator of brain fitness. We finally discuss the implications of our results for the neurobiology of health and disease.
The Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ( MESA ) provides one of the largest and most thoroughly-characterized samples of Hispanic individuals to date. MESA has 1, 374 unrelated Hispanic individuals and a total of 2, 174 subjects of self-reported Hispanic ethnicity, including pedigrees. Most self-identified Hispanic participants also reported more detailed self-identification corresponding to Central America, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and South America. Our population structure analysis and subsequent cluster analysis identified at least four distinct groups within the MESA Hispanic cohort, as well as geographic diversity of the Mesa Hispanic cohort. Our genetic analysis indicates pooled analysis provides the best power when there is only modest heterogeneity in genetic effects, while stratified analysis offers better resolution to detect genetic loci in which SNP effects are limited to or much stronger within a single subgroup of Hispanics. Our results are consistent with historical records and with previous studies, including an analysis of 705 Hispanic individuals from the full MESA cohort using 199 AIMs. Drawing on the resolution of the genome-wide genotype data recently available for the full Hispanic cohort through MESA SHARe ( including 1, 373 unrelated individuals and 2,174 Hispanic individuals in total ), we show that genetic diversity among the Hispanic subgroups contributes to present day Hispanic populations.
Histone chaperones are a group of proteins that bind histones onto replicating DNA to promote nucleosome formation. The Elongator histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) is a component of the Elongators histone chapel complex that is involved in DNA replication-coupled nucleosomes and DNA repair. In this study, we report an interaction between the ElONGator histones acetyl transferase and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ). Cells lacking Elp3 lose silencing of reporter genes at the chromosome VIIL telomere and at the HMR locus, and are sensitive to the DNA replication inhibitor hydroxyurea ( HU ) and the damaging agent methyl methanesulfonate ( MMS ). Moreover, mutations in Elp2 that compromise the formation of the HAT also result in loss of silencing and increased HU sensitivity. Furthermore, mutations at the SAM binding module of Elp1 and the H3 lysine 56 acetyl-transferase Rtt109, which encodes PCNA, result in increased silencing in the presence of HU. Together, these results uncover a novel role for the Elodator complex in transcriptional silencing, maintenance of genome stability and DNA replication.
Understanding how genetic variation in a population influences phenotypic variation is of major importance in biology. Naturally occurring genetic variants, both rare and common, can provide insight into disease mechanism and protein function. This understanding, coupled with the recent explosion in next-generation sequencing, has meant that it is now impossible for individual researchers to collect and collate all the variant information that may be relevant to them. To assist researchers, variant information in publications is selected, summarized, organized, and stored in a searchable form in knowledge bases such as UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and the NHGRI-EBI GWAS Catalog for easier access and greater usability. However, the usage of CNNs to classify text documents is not new, the application of deep learning to speed up the real-world triage process for biomedical literature is, to the best of our knowledge. In this paper, we propose to employ convolutional neural network ( CNN ) as a class of deep, feed-forward artificial neural networks for the identification of publications relevant for variant curation.
The short QT syndrome ( SQT3 ) is a genetic disorder that has been associated with increased risk of ventricular and atrial arrhythmias, and of sudden cardiac death. To date, four missense mutations in KCNJ2-encoded Kir2. 1 channels underlie variant 3 of the SQT syndrome, which is associated with atrial fibrillation ( AF ). Using biophysically-detailed human atria computer models, this study investigated the mechanistic link between mutations in the K+ channels that mediate the K1 channel and the atrial action potential ( AP ), and identified potential ion channel targets for treatment of SQT 3. The D172N and E299V mutations produced distinct effects on AP duration, conduction velocity ( CV ), effective refractory period ( ERP ), tissue excitation threshold and their rate-dependence, fundamentally changing its role in repolarisation of the AP. Combined inhibition of IKr and IKur produced a synergistic anti-arrhythmic effect in both forms of the QT3 mutation.
Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi ( T. cruzi ), is a complex systemic disease endemic in Central and South America. It has been gathering interest due to increases in non-vectorial forms of transmission, especially in developed countries. The objective of this work was to investigate if adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells ( ASC ) can alter the course of the disease and attenuate pathology in a mouse model of chagasic cardiomyopathy. ASC were injected intraperitoneally at 3 days post-infection ( dpi ). Tracking by bioluminescence showed that cells remained in the abdominal cavity for up to 9 days after injection and most of them migrated to the abdominal or subcutaneous fat, an early parasite reservoir. ASC injection resulted in a significant reduction in blood parasitemia, which was followed by a decrease in cardiac tissue inflammation, parasitism and fibrosis at 30 dpi. At the same time point, analyses of cytokine release in cells isolated from the heart and exposed to T. cruzi antigens indicated an anti-inflammatory response in ASC-treated animals. In parallel, splenocytes from ASC-derived groups produced a pro-inflammatory cytokine response, which is important for the control of parasite replication, in placebo and ASC-treatment groups. However, splenic cells from ASC group released higher levels of IL-10. At 60 dpi, magnetic resonance imaging revealed that right ventricular ( RV ) dilation was prevented in ASC treated mice. These results suggest that the injection of ASC early after T.cruzi infection prevents RV remodeling through the modulation of immune responses. Lymphoid organ response to the parasite promoted the control and attenuation of parasite burden, while the heart, a target organ of Chagas Disease, was protected from damage due to an improved control of inflammation in ASC treatment.
Leishmania parasites reside in specialized compartments called parasitophorous vacuoles ( LPVs ). In the mammalian host, Leishmania reside in LPVs whose biogenesis and maturation depends in part on the input of molecular components from various host cell compartments. There is ample evidence that during the biogenesis of LPVs, they acquire characteristics of late endocytic pathway compartments such as acidification and they display numerous molecules that otherwise are resident in the late endoyctic pathway including the Lysosome associated membrane protein ( LAMP1 ) and cathepsins. Retro-2cycl and its analogs have been shown to block the retrograde transport machinery in mammalian cells. In this study, we evaluated the effects of retrograde trafficking inhibitors on Leishmaniasis in macrophages. We found that retro-2 cycl and its analogue DHQZ 36 were more effective than the parent compound, retro-1cycl. Moreover, we found that the retro-3 cycl analogs were more efficacious than retro-4cycl. These findings suggest that retrograde inhibitors could be useful therapeutic agents for the treatment of leishmania infections. In addition, these studies validate and extend the published structure-activity relationship analyses of Retro-3cycl.
The nucleosome—a bulky and ubiquitous protein structure tightly bound to DNA—is believed to occupy a central role in the regulation of gene transcription. However, the role of nucleosomes in regulating gene expression has received considerable attention since the discovery of the epigenome, and considerably more attention is still required to understand this complex regulatory network. Here, we report a computational method to evaluate the nucleosomal sensitivity for a transcription factor over a given stretch of the genome. Sensitive factors are predicted to be those with binding sites preferentially contained within nucleosom boundaries and lacking 10 bp periodicity. Based on these criteria, the Acute Myeloid Leukemia-1a ( AML-1A ) transcription factor, a regulator of immune gene expression, was identified as potentially sensitive to nucleosomer regulation within the mouse Ly49 gene family. This result was confirmed in RMA, a cell line with natural expression of Ly49, using MNase-Seq to generate a nucleosomic map of chromosome 6, where the Ly49 family is located. Analysis of this map revealed a specific depletion of nucleoomes at AML1a binding sites in the expressed Ly49A gene family when compared to the other Ly49 genes. Our data suggest that nucleosoma-based regulation contributes to the expression of genes in the mouse.
CDK4 and CDK6 are the two major CDK4/6 inhibitory proteins that orchestrate cell cycle progression, including genome duplication. CDK activation depends on phosphorylation of their T-loop by a CDK–activating kinase ( CAK ), which is constitutively active. In animals, the only known CAK for CDK2 and CDKA1 is cyclin H-CDK7, and in contrast to the constitutive T177 phosphorylated forms of CDK1, we have identified the activating T172 phosphorylating site of the T172 as the highly regulated step determining CDKK4 activity. We show that CDK7 inhibition prevents activating phosphorylations of all the CDKs, but for CDk4 this was at least partly dependent on its binding to p21cip1. We also show that p21-binding to CDK3 increases concomitantly with disappearance of the most abundant phosphorylate of p21, which we localized at S130 and found to be catalyzed by CDK8. Therefore, specific CDK9 inhibition revealed the following: a crucial but partly indirect CDK-activating protein; existence of CD-K4-activation kinases ( s ) other than CDK; and novel CDK5-dependent positive feedbacks mediated by p21 porylation to sustain CDK 4 activation, pRb inactivation, and restriction point passage.
Meiosis is a complex process during which homologous chromosomes recombine, synapse, and segregate in two successive rounds without an intervening S-phase. Coordination of meiotic events is essential for successful production of haploid daughter cells. In yeast, entry into meiosis activates transcription factors which trigger a transcriptional cascade that results in sequential co-expression of early, middle and late meiotic genes. However, these factors are not conserved, and the factors and regulatory mechanisms that ensure proper meiotic gene expression in multicellular eukaryotes are poorly understood. Here, we report that DUET/MMD1, a PHD finger protein essential for Arabidopsis male meiosis, is required for function during meiosis. DUET-PHD binds H3K4me2 in vitro, and we show that this interaction is critical for function. We also show that DUet is required to regulate proper microtubule organization during male meiotic processes, independently of its function in meiosis I. Remarkably, DUET protein shows stage-specific expression, confined to diplotene. Our results reveal the action of DUET as a transcription regulator during male reproductive development in plants, and suggest that transcription of genes is under stagewise control in plants.
Fragile X–associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a neurodegenerative disorder seen in Fragile X premutation carriers. Previous studies have shown that FragileX rCGG repeats are sufficient to cause neurodegenation and that the rcGG repeat-binding proteins Pur α and hnRNP A2/B1 can modulate rCgg–mediated neuronal toxicity. To explore the role of Pur α in rC GG–mediated neurodegening further, we took a proteomic approach and identified more than 100 proteins that interact with Pur α. Of particular interest is Rm62, the Drosophila ortholog of p68 RNA helicase, which could modulate the toxicity caused by rCGCGG repeats. Here we show that rCG repeats decreased the expression of Rm 62 posttranscriptionally, leading to the nuclear accumulation of Hsp70 transcript, as well as additional mRNAs involved in stress and immune responses. Together these findings suggest that abnormal nuclear export of these mRNas, likely as a result of impaired nuclear export, could contribute to FXTas pathogenesis.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic human pathogen that can cause life-threatening infections in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) patients and individuals with a compromised immune system. Biofilm bacteria are less susceptible to antimicrobial agents and are protected from the host immune response, giving rise to chronic infections that are notoriously difficult to eradicate. One of the most important features of a biofilm is the extracellular polymeric substance that functions as a matrix, holding bacterial cells together. Yet very little is known about how the matrix forms or how matrix components encase bacteria during biofilm development. Here, we directly visualize the product of the polysaccharide synthesis locus ( Psl ), which is anchored on the cell surface in a helical pattern. During attachment, Psl is anchored to the bacterial cell surface, which promotes cell–cell interactions and assembly of a matrix. The anchoring of Psl on the bacterial surface is essential for formation of the Psl matrix and the initiation of a bacterial biofilm. The Psl matrices were visualized in real time during a bacterial microcolony developmental cycle. These data provide a mechanism for how Psl forms and encases the bacterial cells in the biofilm and on a surface and how it changes structure to maintain biofilm architecture during development.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) has the worst prognosis among solid malignancies and improved therapeutic strategies are needed to improve outcomes. Patient-derived xenografts ( PDX ) and patient-derived organoids ( PDO ) serve as promising tools to identify new drugs with therapeutic potential in PDAC. For these preclinical disease models to be effective, they should both recapitulate the molecular heterogeneity of PDAC and validate patient-specific therapeutic sensitivities. To date however, deep characterization of the genomic landscape of paired PDAC PDX and PDO models and comparison with matched human tumours remains largely unaddressed at the whole genome level. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive assessment of the genetic landscape of 16 whole-genome pairs of paired primary and metastatic PDAC, including a unique cohort of 5 ‘trios’ of matched primary tumour, PDX, and PDX. We developed a pipeline to score concordance between PDAC models and their paired human tumour for genomic events, including mutations, structural variations, and copy number variations. Our results highlight that while PDXs and PDOs may serve as tractable and transplantable systems for probing the molecular properties of PDac, these models may best serve selective analyses across different levels of genomic complexity.
Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer. In the past two decades, more than 1, 000 reports have been published addressing the association between variants in candidate genes and breast cancer risk. However, only a few genetic risk factors have been confirmed for this common malignancy. We conducted a four-stage genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19, 091 cases and 20, 606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese, Korean, and Japanese women. SNP rs9485372, near the TGF-β activated kinase ( TAB2 ) gene in chromosome 6q25. 1, showed a consistent association with breast cancer in all four stages, with a P-value of 3. 8×10−12 in the combined analysis of all samples. Adjusted odds ratios ( 95% confidence intervals ) were 0. 89 ( 0. 85–0. 94 ) and 0. 80 for the A/G and A/A genotypes, respectively, compared with the genotype G/G. This study provides strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus represented by rs9483951 and identifies two possible susceptibility loci located in the ESR1 gene and 11q24. 3, respectively.
Cryptococcus neoformans ( Cn ) is one of the major causes of AIDS-related mortality, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where it was estimated to account for as many as 500, 000 deaths annually prior to wide scale availability of antiretroviral therapy ( ART ). Despite increasing access to ART, acute mortality from HIV-associated CM in Sub-Sahara Africa ranges between 20 and 50% within the optimised setting of clinical trials, reaching as high as 70% in real-world practice. A number of clinical adverse prognostic markers in HIV-infected South African patients have been identified, including high fungal burden at CM diagnosis, poor rate of cryptococcal clearance from patient cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) during antifungal treatment, altered mental status at presentation and altered mental state at presentation. In this study, we used multi-locus sequence typing ( MLST ) to analyse the genetic diversity of Cn isolates from well-characterised patients enrolled in four clinical trials conducted in South Africa. We found that the VNB lineage was associated with poor patient survival, and this was maintained even after adjustment for known prognostic indicators and treatment regimen. Comparison of fungal genotype with in vitro phenotype ( phagocytosis, laccase activity and CSF survival ) performed on a subset of 89 isolates revealed evidence of lineage-associated virulence, and that if true, we would find a correlation between phenotypic and clinical parameters, and the underlying lineage and genotype. These findings show that Cryptococcus Neoformans is a phenotypically heterogeneous pathogen, and show that lineage plays an important role in the virulence of Cns during infection.
In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, components are shared to varying degrees among pathways regulating mating, filamentation, cell wall integrity, ascospore formation, and osmoregulation. These examples, however, have not provided insights into how signal transduction pathways evolve. Here, we have identified the transcription factor Tec1 as the last component of the newly evolved signal-transduction pathway that regulates the pheromone response of the white cell phenotype in Candida albicans, an opportunistic human fungal pathogen. The transcription factor is derived from three different ancestral programs still functional in C. albinicans. The upstream portion, including signals, receptors, the trimeric G protein complex, and the MAP kinase cascade, was derived from an ancestral biofilm process. The downstream portion of the pathway was derived intact from the upstream portion of this pathway; Tec1, the regulator targeted by the pathway, was from a filamentation pathway; and the white-specific downstream target genes were derived from the ancestral biofilms. The evolution of this new regulatory pathway provides a unique glimpse into the evolution of a new signal-Transduction pathway, and may provide a paradigm for how such pathways may evolve.
The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies dramatically, from less than 20% to more than 70%. This variation is generally ascribed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria. Here we test this hypothesis by examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism using datasets from 149 bacterial species. We find a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria, across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species. This pattern is inconsistent with mutation bias, since it would imply that most GC-rich species are declining in GC-contents; such a pattern would be unsustainable. We also show that the patterns are probably not due to translational selection or biased gene conversion, because optimal codons tend to be AT+rich. We therefore conclude that selection is acting to increase the genomic GC content in many species.
In order to implement control of soil-transmitted helminths ( STHs ), it is essential to have accurate, accurate maps that provide intervention recommendations at policy-relevant spatial scales. To guide control of STH control at district levels, maps are required of the combined prevalence of infection, indicating where this prevalence exceeds an intervention threshold of 20%. Here we present a new approach for mapping the combined observed prevalence of infections in Kenya, using the example of Kenya in 2009. We use the largest assembly of contemporary empirical evidence for STH prevalence across the country for both 1989 and 2009. Population census data were combined with risk models and projected to estimate the population at risk and requiring treatment in Kenya. In most areas for 2009, there was high certainty that endemicity was below the 20% threshold, with areas of endemicity ≥20% located around the shores of Lake Victoria and on the coast. The model estimated that a total of 2. 8 million school-age children live in districts which warrant mass treatment. As control is successful in reducing infection levels, updated models can be used to refine decision making in helminth control.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) is a bacterial pathogen that infects humans and causes tuberculosis in the United States. The immune system is activated by the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system, which are responsible for the control of infection. However, the contribution of innate lymphocytes to immunity against Mtb remains controversial. We established an in vitro system to study this question. We show that CD1d-restricted invariant NKT ( iNKT ) cells are sufficient to restrict Mtb replication. We also show that iNsKT cells have a direct bactericidal effect, even in the absence of synthetic ligands such as α-galactosylceramide. These findings provide a rationale for understanding how immunomodulation of CD1D-restricted NKT cells during Mtb infection can have a role in the adjuvant therapy of tuberculosis.
Bacterial endospores are highly resilient cells in part because they are surrounded by a complex protein coat. In many cases protein assemblies are stabilized by covalent bonds, one example of which is the formation of intra- or intermolecular ε- ( γ-glutamyl ) lysil cross-links catalyzed by transglutaminases ( TGases ). Because of the potential for unwanted cross-linking reactions, the activities of many TGases have been shown to be tightly controlled. Here, we show that substrates assembled onto the spore coat prior to Tgl production govern the localization of Tgl to the surface of the developing spore. We also show that Tgl residues important for substrate recognition are crucial for its localization. Moreover, during the reaction, Tgl becomes part of the cross-linked products. Thus, the dependency on the substrates is used to accurately control the time, location and extent of the enzyme´s activity.
Opisthorchis viverrini is a food-borne trematode species that might give rise to biliary diseases and the fatal cholangiocarcinoma. In Lao PDR, an estimated 2. 5 million individuals are infected with O. viverrin, but epidemiological studies are scarce and the spatial distribution of infection remains to be determined. Our aim was to map the distribution of O. flavivirus infection in southern Lao province, identify underlying risk factors, and predict the prevalence of infection at non-surveyed locations. A cross-sectional parasitological and questionnaire survey was carried out in 51 villages in Champasack province in the first half of 2007. Data on demography, socioeconomic status, water supply, sanitation, and behavior were combined with remotely sensed environmental data and fed into a geographical information system. Bayesian geostatistical models were employed to identify risk factors and to investigate the spatial pattern of infection. The prevalence of o. vivivirus among 3, 371 study participants with complete data records was 61. 1%. The prevalence was low and high in the mountains and high risk in the Mekong corridor. Our study provides new insight into the distribution and underlying risk profiles of O. viverringrini infection in the region. We present the first risk map of infection in Champazack province, which is important for spatial targeting of control efforts. Infection with o. flavifirus appears to be strongly associated with exposure to the second intermediate host fish, human behavior and culture, whereas high transmission is sustained by the lack of sanitation.
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, is among the world's ten largest cities with fastest growth, and its population is expected to double between 2005 and 2020. The presence of Anopheles and Culex larvae is common, which is likely to impact the transmission of lymphatic filariasis and malaria by the resulting adult mosquito populations. However, the importance of drains as larval habitats remains unknown. Data on mosquito larval habitat routinely collected by the Urban Malaria Control Program ( UMCP ) and a special drain survey conducted in 2006 were used to obtain a typology of habitats. Focusing on drains, logistic regression was used to evaluate potential factors impacting the presence of mosquito larvae. Spatial variation in the proportion of habitats that contained larvae was assessed through the local Moran's I indicator of spatial association. More than 70% of larval areas in Dar es Salam were human-made. Aquatic habitats associated with agriculture had the highest proportion of Aopheles larvae presence and the second highest of Culesx larvae presence. The majority of aquatic habitats were drains ( 42% ) and therefore, 43% ( 1, 364/3, 149 ) of all culicine and 33% ( 320/976 ) were drains. The proportion of drains with mosquito larvae was spatially correlated. Restoring and maintaining drains in Dar Es SalaAM has the potential to eliminate more than 40% of all potential mosquito larv habitats that are currently treated with larvicides by the UMCP.
Dengue is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease in humans. Changes of lipid-related metabolites in endoplasmic reticulum of dengue virus ( DENV ) infected cells have been associated with replicative complexes formation. Previously, we reported that DENV infection inhibits HMGCR phosphorylation generating a cholesterol-enriched cellular environment in order to favor viral replication. In this work, using enzymatic assays, ELISA, and WB we found a significant increase in the activity of AMPK in DENV infected cells. AMPK activation by metformin and lovastatin decreased the HMG CR activity suggesting that AMPK inhibition mediates the enhanced activity of HMGC. Furthermore, the inhibition of this phosphatase by compound C ( AMPK inhibitor ) augmented the viral genome copies and the percentage of infected cells, suggesting a role for AMPK activity in the formation of DENV replicative complex formation. These data demonstrate that the elevated activity of the AMPK enzyme is mediated through AMPK and not by increase in PP2A activity. Interestingly, the inhibitor of this enzyme showed an antiviral effect. These results suggest that AM PK activity inhibition could be an important mechanism through lipid metabolism during DENV replication cycle.
Biological machines are ubiquitous in the cell and typically contain many molecules that include protein, RNA, and other cofactors. Each molecule provides a unique contribution to an assembly's energy landscape, which then governs the machine's function. To quantify the diffusive properties of functionally-relevant collective rearrangements, it is necessary to identify coordinates that are able to accurately capture these motions ( which encompass large-scale diffusive movement of the subunits ). We have used an all-atom molecular dynamics simulation of the ribosome to provide the quantities necessary to provide this bridge for specific conformational events associated with the process of tRNA translocation. Starting from a pre-translocation configuration, we identified sets of residues that collectively undergo rotary rearrangement. We then used the diffusion coefficients along these collective coordinates for translocation to interconvert between experimental rates and measures of the energy landscape. This analysis, in conjunction with previously reported experimental rates of translocation, provides an upper-bound estimate of the free-energy barriers associated with translocation and provides a general framework for understanding and interpreting all available data for a given biological process.
The genetic landscape of medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC ) is not yet fully understood, although some oncogenic mutations have been identified. To explore genetic profiles of MTCs, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissues from MTC patients were assayed on the Ion AmpliSeq Cancer Panel v2. Eighty-four sporadic MTC samples and 36 paired normal thyroid tissues were successfully sequenced. We discovered 101 hotspot mutations in 18 genes in the 84 MTC tissue samples. The most common mutation was in the ret proto-oncogene, which occurred in 47 cases followed by mutations in genes encoding Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog ( N = 14 ), serine/threonine kinase 11 ( N. 11 ), v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcomas viral homolog, mutL homolog 1 ( N= 4 ), Kiesten rat Sarcoma virus oncogen homolog and MET proto-ONcogene ( N < 3 ). We also evaluated the fusion partner of anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK ) rearrangement by immunohistochemistry and break-apart fluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ). Two of 98 screened cases were positive for ALK FISH. We detected a novel GFPT1-ALK fusion that has not been reported in any type of cancer. Our results suggest that the EML4-ALK fuse in MTC may be a potential driver mutation and a valid target of ALK inhibitors. Furthermore, the fusion may be used as a potential candidate for molecular target therapy.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a vector-borne protozoal disease caused by the Leishmania donovani species complex. In this part of the world, most of the asymptomatic cases are contributed by three Asian countries India, Nepal, and Bangladesh. In an endemic area, most L. noovani infections remain asymptic. In the present study, we observed a prevalence rate of 3. 16% ( 79/2497 ) asymphomatic leishmannial infection among the healthy population screened. Antileishmanial antibody was detected in 185 individuals of them 96 had a history of VL/PKDL and 89 without such history. Seventy nine such individuals were classified as asymtomatic leISHmaniasis and ten as active VL with a ratio of 7. 9:1. Out of 79 asyptomatically infected persons 2 were lost to follow up as they moved to other places. Amongst asymmatically infected individuals, disease transformation in 8/77 ( 10. 39% ) and sero-conversion in 62/77 were noted. Seven ( 9. 09% ) remained sero positive even after three years. Progression to clinical disease among asympomatic individuals was taking place at any time up to three years after the baseline survey. If there are no VL /PKDL cases for two or more years, it does not mean that the area is free from leishmania infection as symptomatic VL or PKDL may appear even after 3 years, if there are such asympsomatic cases. So, asymymptomatic infected individuals need much attention for VL elimination programme that has been initiated by three adjoining endemic countries.
Genome rearrangements ( GCRs ) are associated with a variety of genetic diseases, including Down Syndrome. Genome rearranging is associated with abnormal cellular growth and tumor cells often exhibit aneuploidy, and such events are thought to contribute to the development and progression of cancer. To fully understand the mechanisms by which GCR are formed, it is often necessary to determine their structures and sequence their rearrangement breakpoints. We previously demonstrated that introduction of the repetitive retrotransposon Ty912 onto a nonessential chromosome arm of Saccharomyces cerevisiae led to increased genome instability predominantly due to increased rates of formation of monocentric nonreciprocal translocations. In this study, we adapted Multiplex Ligation–dependent Probe Amplification ( MLPA ) to analyze a large numbers of GCR in order to provide insights into the processes that suppress and promote GCR formation. Using MLPA, we found that the distribution of translocations induced by the presence of Ty9912 in a wild-type strain was nonrandom and that the majority of these translocations were mediated by only six translocation targets on four different chromosomes, even though there were 254 potential Ty-related translocations in the genome. Finally, we demonstrated that defects in ASF1-RTT109–dependent acetylation of histone H3 lysine residue 56 ( H3K56 ) resulted in increased accumulation of both GCR and whole-chromosome duplications, and resulted in a large number of GRCs that tended to occur simultaneously with GCR. Overall, we demonstrate that MLPA is a versatile technique for the rapid analysis of G CRs and can facilitate the genetic analysis of the pathways that prevent and promote the formation of GCCs.
In protein folding, the association of two proteins is driven by a free energy funnel, determined by favorable interactions in some neighborhood of the native state. We describe a method based on stochastic global minimization of funnel-shaped energy functions in the space of rigid body motions ( SE ( 3 ) ) while accounting for flexibility of the interface side chains. The method, called semi-definite programming-based underestimation ( SDU ), employs a general quadratic function to underestimate a set of local energy minima and uses the resulting underestimator to bias further sampling. We show that SDU effectively minimizes functions with funnel-like basins, but its application to docking in the rotational and translational space SE (3 ) is not straightforward due to the geometry of that space. We introduce a strategy that uses separate independent variables for side-chain optimization, center-to-center distance of the two proteins, and five angular descriptors of the relative orientations of the molecules. The optimization of the search space turns out to vastly improve the efficiency of the optimization, because the five-dimensional space now exhibits a well-behaved energy surface suitable for underestimation. This algorithm explores the free energy surface spanned by encounter complexes and shows similarity to the model of macromolecular association that proceeds through a series of collisions. Results for standard protein docking benchmarks establish that in this space the free energies landscape is a funnel in a reasonably broad neighborhood of native state and that the SDU strategy can generate docking predictions with less than 5 Å ligand interface Cα root-mean-square deviation while achieving an approximately 20-fold efficiency gain compared to Monte Carlo methods.
